# TWB - Tzedakah
***The Waters of Babylon***

---

_Editor's Note: This, and all subsequent chapters marked as "TWB", are part of the Deathworlders extended universe and make up the collection known as The Waters of Babylon. It was written by **u/slice_of_pi**. This collection is part of the (somewhat subjective) "Essential" reading order and provides backstory for several characters and events that are later included in Hambone's main story._

---

## Author's Note
This is the first chapter, taking place between the ending events of the main storyline in chapter 40.4 and chapter 41. This story is very much a crossover storyline (which you can read in any order) with /u/ctwelve ‘s Good Training: Survival installment and the main storyline - as such, I suggest paying attention to date markers, as they’re important for reasons that will become clear as you go. There are many characters appearing in all three storylines, with several beginning in one and appearing in one or both of the others. So... read all three, or you’re not gonna get everything. /u/ctwelve was good enough to allow me to post to the hfy-archive, because this chapter would otherwise go way into the comments.

On an additional note - this storyline has a deliberately heavy religious overtone to it. The parallels between the Holocaust and the events on Gao were, to me, inescapable, and that was a large part of the inspiration for this story.

Many thanks to: /u/Hambone3110 for letting me once again play in his sandbox and accommodating me coloring outside the lines, to /u/ctwelve for collaboratively writing this with me and for giving me both ongoing encouragement and much-needed constructive criticism, and to /u/AugmentedLurker for his patience with my incessant questions on Jewish history, traditions, music, and so on.

---

*For He will instruct His angels in your behalf, to guard you in all your ways.*  
*They will carry you in their hands, lest you hurt your foot on a rock. You*  
*will tread upon the lion and the viper; you will trample upon the young lion*  
*and the serpent*

*-Psalm 91*

---

**Date Point: 14Y 1W AV**

**Jerusalem, Israel**

The hastily-summoned Knesset was in a low uproar. Earth's news organizations had
been able to get very little out of the tight-lipped military regarding the one
question everybody wanted an answer to: *what was happening to Gao?* Speculation
was rampant, and the various members of the Israeli Parliament were, mostly,
just as much in the dark as anyone. The few reports received from Cimbrean that
hadn't been summarily censored showed massive numbers of hollow-eyed Gaoian
refugees pouring through the jump platforms, and while no one seemed to have
actual facts, it was obvious that there was very, very little good news to be
had.

A harsh bang of the gavel from the raised dais at the top of the chamber brought
an end to most of the buzz of side conversation, as the members looked to their
own leadership. The session had been called at an unusually early hour;
overhead, the rising sun was just illuminating the high windows, and most of
them had had to be roused from bed to attend. It was unusual enough that, to a
man, they had assembled.

"We will come to order," intoned the Speaker into his microphone. The last
whispering stopped, and, uncharacteristically, the room was silent for a moment.
"Thank you. We recognize the Prime Minister." So addressed, the Prime Minister
stood and approached a podium. She adjusted a pile of papers, then looked up.

"Thank you, members, for coming this morning. I realize this is earlier than the
customary time, and I apologize for bringing you here at this hour. What I have
to say, however, cannot wait or face delay." She paused for a moment, and then
plunged on.

"My office was made aware yesterday of several developments in the ongoing
Gaoian crisis. Allied Extrasolar Command has successfully secured the Gaoian
system from outside attack, driven off the Hunters, and deployed a system
defense shield." She held up a hand to forestall comment, even as she was
interrupted by applause and shouts of approval from most of the room.

"There is much, however, to be done simply to secure the surface of Gao from
remaining enemy forces. We received word yesterday that the Gao have raised a
Great Father, for the first time in millennia, to address this, and of course
there is the deployment of the US Army to the surface for ongoing combat
operations."

"Humanity is at a crucial and unprecedented point today. Fourteen years ago, we
learned for absolute certain that we are not alone in the universe... and one
topic that has been conspicuously absent from this body's deliberation is
whether the laws that govern us all, the rights that we have called *human* are,
in fact *human* rights at all. I believe they are not. I believe that God
created our non-human friends as He created us, and I believe it is time that
this body led the rest of Humanity in recognizing this central truth." She
paused, waiting for the racket to die down, as some applauded, some booed, and
some shouted. It took several minutes and several raps of the Speaker's gavel
for the chamber to be quiet again.

"Our American friends, several hundred years ago, put into one of their founding
documents that they hold the truths of equality, life, liberty, and the pursuit
of happiness to be self-evident, that they are granted by a merciful and just
God, and that they are inherent to all men.. I have come before this body with a
challenge, to be the first among nations to righteously declare that there is a
right to existence and sentience possessed by all living peoples, be they human
or no." The chamber was dead silent as the members looked at one another. The
Prime Minister went on, more quietly.

"This nation, this people, this very chamber and every man and woman here, is
here because the history of the Jewish people is written in tears. We understand
loss. We understand pain. We remember. It is graven in our very bones. It is
therefore right, and just, that we lead our fellow Man in recognizing the right
of all sentient people to exist, that *moakh shalit al halev*, or, the heart is
ruled by the mind, and that a people who remember the Holocaust must never
permit such a thing to happen to others without answer. Thank you."

---

**Date Point: 14Y 1W**

**Office of Governor-General Sir Jeremy Sandy, Folctha, Cimbrean**

**Sister Niral**

The *scratch scratch* of a Gaoian at the door was, for Sir Jeremy, a welcome
break in what felt like a week that would probably not end until the universe
died of heat death. Sir Jeremy had been functioning on an hour or two of sleep
snatched at odd intervals since the launch of the Gaoian Crisis. He couldn't
remember the last time he had showered, had an uninterrupted hot meal, or more
than five consecutive hours of sleep, but being able to actually receive a
Gaoian visitor while he was in his office felt both like a return to some kind
of normalcy and an encouraging sign that the refugee camps' internal
organization had progressed to a point that they were able to send someone to
him for something.

"Come," he said in a raised voice. The door swung open. "Sister Niral. How may I
be of service?" Without asking, he poured her a cuppa, having literally just
heated the water for himself, for the umpteenth time that day, and slid it
across to her.

She took the cup with a grateful tilt to her ears. "I... we cannot... I cannot
thank you, and every human, enough for all you are doing for us, Sir Jeremy. If
there was any doubt that our peoples are meant to be allies, I think the last
week has dispelled that." She held the cup in tired paws, simply feeling the
warmth and inhaling the delicate fragrance.

"We were in no position to help the Guvnurag," Sir Jeremy said after a moment.
"The words *never again* have a special meaning for my people, as you may know.
To stand by and watch that happen to your people was not something we could
abide."

Niral sipped. "We are more grateful than you know."

Sir Jeremy grimaced. "Even now, I and the commanders of our forces wish we could
do more." He sighed and took a sip of his own tea, which, as always, was a
panacea if only for a moment. They sat in silence, both sipping.

"I came to ask, actually, if the hall for the Thing is available," Niral said,
finally. "While your organizations are doing an incredible job managing things,
some of us feel that it is past time we took over organizing logistics for
incoming refugees and the cubs, and played a more direct hand in managing. We
appear to be here for the long term, Governor, and it would be wrong of us to
allow you to shoulder it alone."

Sir Jeremy raised one eyebrow. "I don't believe we have anyone housed there
currently... which is unusual now that I think about it. I don't see why
not... but the Thing might have to be convened. That isn't a decision I have the
authority to make, Sister. What did you have in mind to use it for?"

Niral frowned. "To be perfectly honest, I'm not sure. We don't govern the same
way you do-we make decisions communally and informally-but I think there's a
lesson there in having a place... dedicated to making decisions and to
assembling... that isn't used for something else. And there is no way that those
decisions and discussions can happen in the camps-the camps are too busy and
chaotic for it."

Sir Jeremy was nodding as she finished speaking. "Aye, I will be happy to take
this to the leadership, and I'll run point on getting word back to you. How does
that sound?"

Niral gave him a faint Gaoian smile with her ears cocked. "Thank you, Governor.
I need to be going." She finished her tea, and nodded again to him, and closed
the door on her way out.

---

**Date Point: 14 Y 1W AV**

**Interfaith Center, Folctha, Cimbrean**

**Gyotin, Clan Starmind**

The sound of plucking strings and a soft, haunting melody wafted through the
air, as Gyotin returned to the Interfaith Center both to check in with his
fellow Starminds and to get something to eat. The sound started and stopped,
with the voice of a male human speaking every time it stopped to an audience of
some kind.

Gyotin rounded the corner and stopped, surprised. The floor of the big central
room was absolutely stuffed with cubs, several Mothers overseeing their wayward
charges, but that wasn't the surprising thing. The surprise was... they were all,
every last one of them, holding *still* and paying *attention*. By itself, this
was nearly miraculous-there were probably fifty of them, divided into three
groups roughly the same size as one another, and grouped mostly by age. The
human standing at the front of the room with a stringed musical instrument of
some sort was speaking to the littlest ones with the aid of a translator on his
arm.

"Okay... just like we were practicing earlier," and [the
song](https://youtu.be/uTnspbSjKVc) began again as he addressed the other two
groups. "I'll cue your groups to come in-remember, this is called a 'round',
meaning you'll all be singing different parts of the same song at the same time,
and here we go, with me...." He nodded to the youngest cubs, and they began to
sing, hesitantly pronouncing the unfamiliar words and then gaining more
confidence. The verse ended, and began again, and as the first verse ended, the
second group picked up and began singing the same song over the top of the first
group. The melody was sad, and soft, and full of haunting regret and loss,
remembrance of places, people, and things gone forever. The Mothers, Gyotin
noticed, were doing their utmost to be silent as the cubs sang. He walked in
quietly and stood next to several of them by the youngest cubs in the room.

It wasn't a long song, Gyotin noticed, and as it came to an end, several of the
Mothers he stood next to surreptitiously wiped tears from their eyes and at
least one inhaled deeply in an attempt to not whimper. The cubs' attention was
still on the Human at the front of the room, who smiled as the song finished,
the deeper voices of the almost-adult cubs at the back of the room trailing off,
followed by a final chord from his instrument.

"That song is a verse set to music, but the verse was very old, for humans. It
was written, we think, about four thousand of our years ago, and what we're
singing now is a translation... of a translation, of a translation, I think. This
music is much more recent, it was written maybe fifty years ago; this verse has
been set to music many times, as have most of the verses in the same book," the
man said. He caught Gyotin's eye and nodded. "Okay. I want to hear some of the
songs you know now. You figure out what you're going to sing-I'm going to go
talk to the Mothers about boring grownup things." He winked at the room, and a
round of chittering flickered across the room, as he walked through the narrow
opening between groups of cubs, as they busily began moving around, pulling
things out of covered bags and making room for one another by essentially piling
atop one another in a recursive heap of fuzzy cuteness.

"That was lovely song. Very ...haunting? That was the right word?" Gyotin asked
in English. The man bowed, and replied in accented but otherwise flawless Gaori.

["Haunting is perhaps the exact word, yes. My people have many songs that
reflect loss; that one is a favorite of mine both because it is so simple and
because it's very well-known. And it's easy to sing."] He stopped speaking and
nodded his head towards the exit, as the more enthusiastic older cubs
demonstrated to the younger, more energetic ones how the various percussion
instruments they were pulling out worked. The resulting thumping, clanking,
banging, and sounds that had no convenient onomatopoeic description was quickly
becoming difficult to talk over. The four Gaoians and taller Human exited the
room and let the door close most of the way, and all three Mothers sighed in
relief once the cubs could no longer see them.

["Cubs are a blessing and a burden at once, aren't they?"] the human said with
another smile. ["I'm Aaron."] The females and Gyotin introduced themselves
quickly. Back inside the big room, the sounds of tall drums settled into a
rhythm, augmented by a deep rhythmic bark that was half a shout and half a
simple challenging exhalation. It built quickly, as more of the cubs picked up
the rhythm, and before more than a minute had gone by, Aaron started chuckling.

"That's a *haka*, isn't it? Or at least, it sounds a lot like one," he said in
English. He looked inside to see, sure enough, a chittering line of young male
cubs dancing for the group in moves that no human spine could possibly emulate.

"They must have seen one in our media... that's... that's actually pretty well
done." He looked back at the group to see all three of the Mothers with a
scandalized set to their ears. "Oh, you mustn't think I'm offended. Quite the
opposite, really. I'm glad they have so much resilience."

"We... need to get them settled down, I think. It's getting late, and the small
ones at least will be up all night if they're not nested down soon," said one of
the Mothers, to agreement from the other two. "Thank you for your time, Rabbi
Aaron. We look forward to more music."

The three Females re-entered the group, bringing the gyrating frenzy to an
abrupt and unpopular halt. Once the drums were stowed, and the elder cubs
press-ganged into getting the youngest together, in a remarkably short time, the
Gaoian children left the Interfaith Center, chirruping goodbyes to "Rabbi Aaron"
in high-pitched little voices.

"It is a good thing you do," said Gyotin kindly. "Come. Have tea and sit with me
a while."

"Tea sounds wonderful," Aaron said. They went into one of the many side rooms
lined with books, and Gyotin busied himself for perhaps the hundredth time that
day. His simple version of a tea ceremony never seemed to fail in applying its
magic, and while he'd had lots of practice on refugees lately, he was interested
to see how a human would respond.

As the water heated, building up in a steady quiet whistle inside the pot,
Gyotin regarded his new visitor. "This instrument you have... is a guitar, yes?"
Aaron nodded.

"I've played since I was a teen. A major part of my work at home is seeing to
refugees in camps not unlike the one outside of town here, although they're
entirely populated by humans."

Gyotin cocked his ears. "I often forget how few of your people are involved
beyond your own world."

"Parts of our world are still very primitive. Music, I've found, is one of the
few ways that I can connect with nearly anyone, and I was interested to see how
it would work with, well, non-humans. The opportunity was too good to resist."

"My people's string instruments, what few we use, are much less complex," Gyotin
observed. "Fewer strings, and much different configuration-some are large and
have many strings, but each string is one note, not many as yours seems to be."
Aaron swung the guitar in front of himself.

"This is a purely acoustic guitar; it's been in my family for a long time. Six
strings, tuned at the top with tension, with different thicknesses to allow for
different ranges of notes," he gestured to it as he explained. "Pressure on the
strings at different points makes for different sounds, like so..." he
demonstrated a single note, rising in pitch as he slid his hand further towards
the bottom of the string.

"Strings can be plucked... or struck... or strummed..." He demonstrated the
various different methods. "There was one famous electric guitarist that used a
power drill to play. He was *amazing* in his day."

Gyotin was fascinated despite himself. Even in simple tools, humans consistently
demonstrated a depth of thought and development that was mostly unprecedented in
the larger galactic community, doing more with less than anyone else ever had.
"How many kinds of guitar are there? You mentioned that this one is
acoustic... and you have electric ones too?"

"Oh yes. And hybrid guitars that are acoustic but have electric pickups. Guitars
made of different materials, different types of strings-all used for different
kinds of music. Here, let me show you." Aaron pulled out his phone and accessed
the colony's cache of YouTube.

"So... [here's that guy I was telling you about](https://youtu.be/o1GJxVmYv-E)."
They watched Eddie Van Halen for a moment, and Gyotin's tail was soon twitching
to Van Halen's classic.

"So energetic," Gyotin said, leaning over to look closer at the small screen as
the video wound down.

"Okay... and here's another one... this is a contrast. [This is the
original](https://youtu.be/wyx6JDQCslE), which is basically just for fun," He
let the video play, and they watched several outlandishly dressed young human
males cavorting in unlikely-looking clothing.

Aaron pulled up a third video. "Look at what [this guy did with an acoustic
guitar](https://youtu.be/vsvlsuLau5c), with the same tune, though." Gyotin
couldn't help twitching his tail and bobbing his head to the beat of this one,
which appealed to him a lot.

"And those are the same song!" Gyotin marveled after the video of Noah Guthrie
was done playing. "We have different versions of our music, but... nothing quite
like that. It's the same song, but they're nothing alike at all."

"Exactly. I think music is one of the single things that humans... or, actually,
thinking beings of all kinds, really... can all relate to, even if it's something
we don't appreciate. I don't like American country music, particularly, but
there are millions of humans who do," Aaron said, nodding. "Among my people,
music is a way of remembering the past. We have songs that are older than
Western civilization by thousands of years, although most haven't lasted."

Gyotin cocked his head. "That's the second time you have referred to 'my
people'. What do you mean by that?"

Aaron blinked. "I... I guess I'm so used to people knowing what being a Jew means
that I hadn't considered that you might not."

Gyotin's ears splayed with tired humor. "How is a 'Jew' different from other
humans? To my nose, you all smell much the same. What does it mean to you?"

"Oh, man. Where to even start?" Aaron said, thoughtfully. "Okay. You know that
one of the ways that humans divide ourselves is by religion, yeah?" Gyotin
nodded, aware from his reading in the human library that there were possibly as
many different religions as there were living human beings; he and the other
Starminds had gravitated towards Zen Buddhism for most of their still-developing
philosophy, but he had found nuggets of various truths that resonated with him
with nearly every religious text he had been able to get his paws on.

"So... Judaism, Islam, and Christianity are all from the same roots, what most
scholars accept as being the 'Abrahamic religions'. I personally think that all
three split from the original root at different times and for different
historical pressures, but in some circles that's an unpopular opinion."

Gyotin nodded. He had read at length about the divide between three of Earth's
major religions, and found it both alarming and fascinating that such subtle
differences in doctrine had led to so much strife.

"Anyway-Christianity came to dominate the West, from about a millenia and a
half ago until the present day. During that time, the Jews, followers of Judaism
that is, had been dispersed throughout Europe away from our homeland. For many
reasons that I won't go into now, it was not just legally sanctioned, but
religiously encouraged, to discriminate against my people. Read Shakespeare's
*Merchant of Venice* some time, if you haven't already, and understand that the
character of Shylock is a Jew."

Gyotin duck-nodded; he hadn't previously encountered an actual rabbi, and didn't
want to interrupt the torrent of words coming from his new friend, so said
nothing. He had found that humans, particularly younger humans that were excited
or passionate about something, typically would simply fill silence with whatever
that topic was until they exhausted themselves or realized that the other party
wasn't saying anything. It was useful in the extreme, because most of them never
realized he was simply being silent and listening, and those that did went on
about what a good listener he was. Young Ava Rios was like that.

"Within the last century," Aaron went on, "we experienced something that reminds
me very much of what is happening to your people today." He idly plucked at his
guitar, eliciting a mournful chord or two. "In places, nine out of ten Jews
were... exterminated, intentionally. Roughly six million of my people were
slaughtered for no crime more serious than their birth, in a span of about six
or seven of our years. They called it a 'Final Solution to the Jewish Problem'."

"The American President released some information several days ago," Gyotin said
thoughtfully. "He said that the true enemy is the hand inside the Hunter puppet,
and that they are the ones that have made so many of my people into these
drones. I have heard that Great Father Daar has said the same."

"Zombies," Aaron said without humor. "They fit the bill." Gyotin nodded an
acknowledgement.

"Zombies, then. Yes... perhaps they try to exterminate us because they see us as
a threat, you think?" Gyotin asked. "This makes me think perhaps we are more
powerful than we think. In a way, it is a compliment."

Aaron laughed, a single exhalation that had little actual humor in it. "For
someone whose people is facing extinction, you have a unique point of view."

"As do you," Gyotin observed. "What is it that keeps your people... your people,
do you think? This is a question I have asked many times since I came here, of
many people, and I get many answers."

"We have a shared history and culture that has been very resilient for thousands
of our years," Aaron replied. "In many ways, Jewish history is defined by our
resilience in the face of loss." He strummed a few more mournful chords by way
of illustration and began to [sing softly](https://youtu.be/bi91fhU54I4).. As it
wound to a halt, Aaron resumed talking, as though he had not interrupted
himself.

"That song is about the pogroms in eastern Europe... coming home to find
everything... the town, the people you love, the very street you live on and the
house you live in simply... gone. Gone forever," Aaron said quietly.

Gyotin laid his ears back almost involuntarily and made a wordless sound of
shared pain.

Aaron went on. "In many ways, I suspect that there are many of your people that
will understand that song all too well before this is over, and it will make no
difference that the enemy is one they didn't even know existed. At least my
people have usually understood who the enemy was, you know?"

"Knowing your enemy is important. Knowing yourself is more important, I think,"
Gyotin returned.

"That's the trick isn't it?" Aaron asked. He strummed at his guitar without
playing anything in particular. "What do you think the result of this is going
to be? I mean... among my people, we formed a new nation and went after the
people that had hurt us the most. Your situation isn't quite the same."

Gyotin thought for a long moment. "I am not sure what to think, but I am afraid,
in a way."

"What are you afraid of?" Aaron asked him, pausing with the guitar.

"I am not sure, to be honest. I... the best comparison I can give you is a Gaoian
saying. I smell Keeda's agony. I do not know what the future has in store for my
people, but I think it will have much pain."

---

**Date Point: 14Y 1W 4D AV**

**Washington DC, United States of America, Earth**

**President Sartori**

"....run that by me again, son," Sartori said to his morning briefing officer.

"The Israeli Knesset, sir. Their PM made an early morning address a few days
ago, drawing a direct parallel from the Gaoian situation to the Holocaust. In
response, the Knesset enacted a new Basic Law this morning, which as you know,
sir, is essentially what passes for a Constitutional Amendment, since they don't
have a Constitution. It declares the... hang on, sir, let me read this
directly..." the officer trailed off. Sartori wasn't a bad boss, as far as this
job went. Most of the time, he was downright pleasant to work for, as he was
anything but a bullshitter, and in Colonel Howard's experience, that was a
pretty rare thing in a leader.

"...Let's see. Here it is, sir. *...recognizes the rights of all sentient beings
to exist, and to protect and defend that right by any and all means...* Goes on
to outline the right to self-defense, sir, but that's the gist of it. There's an
explanatory statement that references the Gao specifically, sir, but the text of
the Basic Law isn't that specific. This also comes with a request from the
Israeli ambassador for a meeting with you, at your earliest convenience."

Sartori growled something wordless into his second... maybe third, he wasn't
sure... cup of coffee for the morning. He'd sworn off the stuff during his
campaign, but his term thus far had reignited his body's need for sufficient
caffeine with a vengeance, and his staff had quickly adapted to ensuring that
The Boss had a ready supply.

"All right, thank you, Andrew. Anything else?"

"Just one final item, sir. AEC says they'll have a briefing for you in a few
days on...."

---

**Date Point: 14Y 1W 4D AV**

**Various locations across Western Civilization, Earth**

It began in many places, as most such movements do. If it could be truly said to
have started anywhere, a historian might have placed that point in Israel, but
by the time anyone might have cared about such things, the moment for
identifying it was long gone and forgotten.

The Knesset's decisions, occasionally impenetrable, sometimes almost
contradictory, but always impactful, typically always had an effect of *some*
kind on the Jewish community of the West. Rabbis in synagogues read the new
Basic Law, did some thinking about it, and although some of them spoke with
their peers about it, nearly all of them came to the same conclusion.

Often little-appreciated, known, or acknowledged by the non-faithful was a
nonetheless core tenet of Jewish faith; a *mitzvah* injunction to charity.
Equating the Gao's plight to the Holocaust was a **powerful** statement, albeit
one not fully appreciated by the massive Western media until rabbis in nearly
every synagogue in the West spoke about it the following Sabbath. That changed
things. Enormous online communities sprang up almost overnight, coordinating the
biggest question of *How can I help* with the biggest answer *Here's what's
needed*, followed by news reports on CNN and other networks worldwide. At the
moment, nothing yet was known, and inevitably, all eyes turned to the State of
Israel.

They'd kicked this off. There must be a plan behind it.

---

**Date Point: 14Y 2W 1D AV**

**Washington DC, United States of America, Earth**

**President Sartori**

"Ambassador! Thank you for coming!" President Sartori greeted the Israeli
Ambassador with a firm handshake and a smile polished by both years of public
speaking and a genuine like of this particular Ambassador. "Please, come in,
have a seat." They were in the Oval Office, and he led the group accompanying
the Ambassador around to a pair of cream-colored couches in front of the
Presidential desk, gesturing to the empty one and taking a seat next to his
Chief of Staff and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, from the Pentagon. Once all
were seated, coffee offered and declined, and the niceties observed, he leaned
back. "How may the United States help our Israeli friends?"

"Thank you, Mr. President," began the Ambassador. "I must introduce my
companions; this is General Gavriel Schur of the Israeli Defense Force, and
Rabbi Uwriy Walden, a representative of one of the largest *Chabad-Lubavitch*
communities in the United States."

"Gentlemen... welcome," said Sartori. "These are my Chief of Staff and the
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs. Please, go on."

"Mr. President, thank you. As you may know, the Knesset enacted a new Basic Law
several days ago, recognizing the right to exist of all sentient beings. The
State of Israel is prepared to contribute materially, and to leverage our global
community resource base, to assist the Gaoian people in their time of need. Mr.
President, I cannot emphasize enough how gravely my government considers this.
What has happened... is happening... to the Gao is another Holocaust. To us,
*never again* means exactly that, as I am sure you can appreciate." The
Ambassador paused, and then went on.

"Toward that end, I have been authorized by my government to make the following
requests of the United States, and my counterparts in the United Kingdom,
Australia, and Canada are this morning putting this matter before the Prime
Ministers of those nations. One, we wish to formally and fully join Allied
Extrasolar Command as a fully participating partner in every sense; this
includes, particularly, entrants to the Spaceborne Operations Regiment, and we
are prepared to contribute logistical support to both Gao and to the refugee
population on Cimbrean. Two, I mentioned a moment ago, we are prepared to
leverage our global community resource base. Specifically, we want to directly
support the Cimbrean refugee effort; we have a great deal of logistical
expertise with such things, as I am sure you know. We have mobile hospitals that
can network with specialists in Folctha and provide full services on-site, up to
and including surgery, trauma care, or stasis transport to a fully equipped
medical facility." The Ambassador leaned forward, placing his elbows on his
knees and looking Sartori directly in the eyes.

"Mr. President, we consider this a moral obligation. I fully anticipate a repeat
of other such refugee relief efforts as we have conducted with great success in
the past. I cannot put it more simply. We offer, because we must help. Morally,
we cannot allow this opportunity to pass without trying." Sartori took a deep
breath, as he usually did before responding to proposals that had considerable
weight behind them.

"Pending the agreement of Australia, Canada, and the United Kingdom, and of
course figuring out exactly what role Israel will play... the United States
agrees in principle. I don't know what help you can provide, sir, but any and
all efforts are welcome." Sartori reached a hand across the table, and their
hands met in a firm, solid grasp.

---

**Date Point: 14Y 2W 4D AV**

**Refugee Camp 4-Folctha, Cimbrean**

**Mother Seema**

Seema couldn't decide what was worse; the new, fresh, raw stench of suffering
every time a new group from Gao came to the camp, the thought usually following
it that her nose would simply never get inured to it, or the fear that it
*would*. None of the Mothers had any answers for the cubs plaintively asking
what had happened, when they could go home, where they were now, or why whatever
was happening had happened.

There were rumors, of course. Seema wasn't sure what to believe despite having
seen events on Gao firsthand. Grim-faced Stonebacks covered in gore and tall
Humans with unreadable expressions had swooped in on her commune, run some kind
of sensor over her head and the head of every Mother they had brought with them,
had bodily *thrown* them into massive military vehicles of some kind for a rough
and unkind ride to a spaceport that looked nothing like it had when she had been
there before. It had taken her an uncomfortable amount of time to recognize
Lavmuy Spaceport, it had changed at the hands of Humans so much. Tense
conversations had followed, and then she and the others were... here. Meeting
humans that had greeted them with worried faces, hot food and drink, and sorrow
that transcended any language barriers at all. The last two weeks had been a
total blur and the most infuriating thing of all is that not even the
*Stonebacks* would tell her what was happening and why they had destroyed her
life, in a violation of everything she had learned as a cub about the Females'
special relationship with Stoneback.

She'd heard that the Wi Kao Females commune had met with tragic results, and it
was rumored that some of the Females there had tried to break their sisters free
and been summarily cut down. She wasn't sure that she believed it.
Mother-Supreme Yulna had released a recorded statement pleading for the Females
to follow the Stonebacks and the Humans, that they were protecting the Females
according to the old Contract, and that the Swarm of Swarms was about to attack
Gao. There had been more, but Seema couldn't remember everything the
Mother-Supreme had said-one of the human medics that had stayed in their camp
almost the whole time they had been there had called it ...something. "Pee Tee
Ess Dee" or something like that, but she hadn't explained it and it hadn't
seemed important enough to demand an answer.

The interceding weeks had been uneventfully exhausting. The Humans never seemed
to sleep at all; Seema would lie down at the end of a day and when she awoke,
she would swear the Humans that had been up and moving around when she'd gone to
sleep were still there, tending to the Mothers and the cubs. They were so
compassionate... she had made friends with several, although she was unable to
reconcile the caring and empathetic people with the rumors of forbidding
Deathworlders. Even their cubs... children... toiled alongside parents in an
endless and one-way river of empathy.

As more, and yet more Mothers, Sisters, and cubs were brought from Gao, however,
the problem of population pressure and everything it brought with it became more
and more apparent. Eventually, she knew, even the Humans were going to simply
run out of resources. She sat, taking her turn watching a sizeable group of
youngsters try to learn a game from some Human children called "football" that
involved a great deal of running and kicking a black-and-white ball according to
rules Seema knew she couldn't have remembered at this point if she'd tried. It
kept them busy, however, and that was the important thing. Busy cubs were cubs
that weren't indulging their endless fascination with mischief and/or
shenanigans. A shadow fell over her, and she looked up.

"May I sit with you, Sister?" said the other Female. Seema didn't know her, but
duck-nodded, grateful to have the company. "I'm Niral."

"I'm Seema," she said, as the other Female sat. "It's good to see them playing
again." She nodded at the cubs running amok on the field, one particularly small
and enthusiastic male with, apparently, a pair of Human shorts in his mouth
running fourpaw ahead of the pack and being chased by all and sundry. The ball
sat, forgotten, at one end of the field. Even the human children ran, behind the
pack of cubs, shrieking with laughter and faux outrage, with the one who was
*sans* his shorts laughing and yelling at the others to bring them back, now
that the game of "football" had become an elaborate game of keepaway.

"I don't know how you manage to keep your eye on that many of them at once,"
Niral said with an amused tilt to her ears. "I typically only have about three
or four of them to deal with. Or, I should say, I did before this all happened.
Things have been a little different over the last week or two."

"Where were you when this started?" Seema asked, unable to help herself.

"I... I have been with the Female Commune here in Folctha for several years,"
Niral said. "I work with the human military here." She sighed. "I was the one
that found the electronic intercept showing that the Hunters were coming to Gao,
but I was too late to do anything about it other than warn others."

Seema's ears had gone flat, despite herself. "So it is true. The Hunters came to
Gao. I had heard, but no-one seems to know, really, and I don't know what to
believe." She deflated, misery rising unchecked back to the forefront of her
mind.

Niral was silent for a moment. "They *tried*. The Humans drove them off and put
up a system defense field like the ones around Cimbrean and Earth." She sighed
again. "It wasn't enough, though. Between the Hunters and the Hierarchy, I'm
afraid the end of the Gao may be staring us in the face."

"The Humans.... *drove off the* ***Swarm of Swarms????***" Seema said in
disbelief. Niral nodded.

"They did. It cost them hundreds of lives and an irreplaceable ship, but they
did it. I've... heard about the weapon they used, but they won't say what it was
or tell us anything about it. All I know is that it turned night into day on Gao
for a few minutes and destroyed thousands of Hunter ships. Millions of the
beasts are dead, adrift in space now. That isn't really what's important,
though."

Seema could only stare at her wordlessly. The phrases *drove off the Swarm of
Swarms* and *millions of dead Hunters* weren't such common utterances that they
squared neatly with *not really what's important*.

Something else Niral had said a moment before stood out in her head suddenly,
illogically. "Hierarchy? That's the thing that the human President was talking
about, why humans don't use implants, right?" Niral duck-nodded.

"Yes. They're very real. If you have implants, they can use them to... hijack
your body and turn you into a puppet. They did that to the entire implanted
population of Gao; a billion of our people, gone, just like that," Niral said
sadly.

Seema's shock had turned to horror. "The Stonebacks... that is what they were
protecting us from. Mother *Yasru* had implants!" A number of things that hadn't
made sense a few short minutes ago were suddenly falling into place.

Niral nodded again. "Yes. The Wi Kao commune's implanted Females broke loose
from the enclosure that Stoneback had them in and got into the armory.
They... massacred... the Sisters, the Mothers... the cubs. Stoneback took a lot of
losses shielding Females with their bodies. And the worst part was, nobody knew
why it was happening, and so the only thing they could see and understand was a
group of Sisters being slaughtered by Stonebacks, when in reality, the
Stonebacks were trying to protect the rest of us that hadn't been taken over."

The two Sisters sat together without speaking further, thinking about problems
that were far too big to solve and almost too big to grasp, when something in
the here and now dragged their attention back to the present. Two of the oldest
male cubs, both close to being young adults, were tensely facing off with one
another. Their body language shrieked aggression, and Seema realized that claws
were already out. Something needed to be done, quickly; neither was old enough
that the Gao's customary rules on males duelling or fighting with one another
would suffice, and with that many little ones close by...

Both Females were across the field in moments, smaller fuzzy heads giving way as
the Mothers arrived. Seema raised her voice, trying to forestall the
nearly-inevitable from becoming actually-happening.

"Boys! What's going on here?" The look of surprise on both young faces was
comical, and Niral had to work to keep a stern Look Of Authority on her face.

"Mother... I..." both began, breaking off as they realized the other was speaking
too. Finally, one plunged on. "Mother, he tripped me on purpose, when he knew
I'd land with my face in the mud." Seema cocked an ear at the other would-be
combatant.

"I didn't! Mother, he tripped over my foot! I didn't put it in front of him on
*purpose*, and then he got up and pushed me!"

Both of the miscreants were grass-stained and covered in mud, and neither of
them smelled particularly repentant. Seema opted for the scorched-earth
approach, rather than get into who had done what to whom first, in front of so
many eagerly nosy faces. "Okay. Since both of you apparently have way too much
energy to handle dealing with each other in a constructive fashion, you've both
just volunteered for latrine duty this evening. Save your fighting for when it
matters."

There was a collective "awwww" from the entire group, and both of the young
males-the group of younger cubs and the human kids all, of course, wanted to
see Mama Seema get the older cubs in trouble, and the two hooligans, of course,
*really* didn't want latrine duty.

"All right," Niral said. "Off with you... go play." She waved a dismissive paw
at the group, who dashed away and resumed whatever version of their game it was
by rules that were probably transitory at best. The two Mothers walked back to
where they'd been sitting before, the two would-be combatants following sulkily
behind. They sat, and Niral looked up. "Oh no. You two go get busy. You know
where to find Sister Gella-you take your direction from her, and no
complaining or I'll have you doing this again tomorrow."

"Yes, Mother....."

"All day. Am I understood?"

"Yes, Mother." The two slouched away, not looking at each other in shared
misery.

"You know," said Seema thoughtfully, once they were out of earshot. "Those two
normally wouldn't have reacted like that."

"What do you mean?" Niral asked.

"Toran and Tybal have been bestest friends practically since they were born, and
they're normally inseparable. Normally, if one of them pushed the other down
into the mud, the one in the mud would have dragged the other one down with
them, and they'd have both been covered in it, utterly filthy, and both pleased
as a Keeda about it."

"And now?" Niral asked.

"Now... those two were ready to come to blows over a little tussle in the dirt.
It wasn't play-fighting like I'd normally expect from them... or from any cub
that age, really." Seema looked around, despair overcoming her face for a
moment. "We need to find these cubs homes."

Niral nodded thoughtfully. *But where? And how?*

---

**Date Point: 14Y 1M AV**

**The Thing, Folctha, Cimbrean**

A Meeting of Mothers was much like a Conclave of Champions, and it was only
coincidence that both terms alliterated nicely in English. Neither was terribly
common, and both were typically invoked by their various constituencies to deal
with an issue bigger than any one constituent group. Unlike the Conclave, the
Mothers' equivalent had no fixed customs for who would host or what the terms
would be, other than that the Mother-Supreme was not invited except to witness
or answer questions, and that all attendees were to be there by consensus, as
were all decisions reached. Lack of clear consensus usually meant either
agreeing to defer to the judgement of those most directly impacted, or a
continuation to a follow up Meeting.

This was the first time a Meeting had been called anywhere outside of Gao,
however.

The main hall of the Thing was easily large enough to host enough Mothers to
adequately represent the growing refugee population, and the existence of that
population along with the ever present question of *what next* was the reason
for holding it. The presiding Mother, by general understanding the most senior
Mother present, stood in the middle of the open hall and waited until the
attendees resolved their initial greetings, exclamations at finding one another
alive, and introductions. Mother-Supreme Yulna had *not* been invited to this
particular Meeting, both because she was heavily occupied with the ongoing
battle over Gao, and because many of the delegates felt that her actions in
doubting Stoneback had tainted her opinions-her proclamation to raise Great
Father Daar went a long way in argument the other way (if not outright coming
out the other side, in fact), but it was generally felt that the fact that there
was a discussion about it at *all* meant that it was wiser not to, even if she
had been available or able to attend.

Mother Ginai, grey-whiskered and white-furred from nearly the point of her
muzzle to the end of her tail, held up a fore-paw until the chatter stopped. It
took several minutes for everything to die down. Her voice, reedy but still
strong despite her advanced years, reached to the top seats due to the excellent
acoustics of the room.

"Sisters, welcome. Welcome to the first Meeting of Mothers ever held in a place
not on Gao." Mother Ginai paused for a moment, turning and looking around the
assembled Mothers. "This Meeting has been called to answer two Questions: First,
shall the Clan of Females ask the government of Folctha to formally take over
administration of aid supplies and the refugee camps. Second, shall the Clan of
Females formally ask the human colony of Folctha for aid in permanently
establishing a Colony of Females upon the world of Cimbrean?" She held up her
paw again as comments started flying already on both questions, for and against.
"We shall have order... we shall have order," she said over the hubbub as the
questions trailed off. "We shall address the first Question first, as it has a
direct bearing upon the second. To speak to this Question first, we recognize
Mother Senim."

The stout Mother so addressed surged to her feet, walked out to stand close to
Mother Ginai, and began speaking almost before she had stopped moving. "I speak
in favor of approving. The Humans have already done the impossible by taking on
more Gaoian Females and cubs than their own population, continuing to feed us
and find room for us. Human security officers patrol our camps. We live under
the aegis of Human protection. To allow this to continue as is, is intolerable.
We cannot return to Gao until the Great Father declares it safe; who among us
believes that will be soon?" She returned to her seat.

"Discussion?" Mother Ginai said, looking around the room. "Mother Senim is
correct, in that Great Father Daar has given the Clan of Females no clear
indications that I know of when Gao might be safe. Mother-Supreme Yulna consults
with him regularly and has said nothing." Another Mother stood, and Mother Ginai
gestured to her. "Mother..."

"Seema, Mother Ginai. I am Mother Seema." She walked forward, slender,
silver-furred and pretty, and much younger than most of the Females in the room.

"We recognize Mother Seema to speak to this Question." Mother Ginai said,
beckoning her forward.

"Sisters," she began quietly, and then repeated, more loudly, at an impatient
gesture from Mother Ginai. "...Sisters... I also speak in favor of approving,
although... not for the same reasons as Mother Senim. Not quite." She paused,
gathering her thoughts. "A major part of raising cubs, as we all know, has
always been to set a positive example, whether that be consistently assigning
chores and punishments where appropriate. In the chaos of this last month, we
have strayed from that single most important task, and I fear that the results
are already, in some cases, becoming apparent." A murmur of comments rippled
through the hall, most of it rueful agreement. Mother Ginai raised her paw again
for silence.

"Sisters, I fear that if we continue to allow the Humans to do these things for
us, we are setting an example of accepting charity rather than administering
aid. Without adequate Male Clan members, or even the workhouses of the Clanless
Males to help in setting an example of proper adult conduct, we are allowing an
avoidable problem to develop. This is not, I think, an appropriate thing for
Females to do; we are the gatekeepers of raising responsible cubs to adults. It
is we who educate them, who train them, who ready them for being productive
adults at the least, and the elite Clans as a goal. It is we who are preparing
our cubs to...." she paused and swallowed, then continued, "...to play a part in
the Great Father's planned need to raise a Grand Army of the Gao, and to prepare
our cubs to rebuild when the fires are put out and the monsters are slain. Not
to take this burden up would be failing our most basic task." She trailed off.
"....That's all I wanted to say." Seema scuttled back to her seat, and sat.

"Are there arguments against this Question?" Mother Ginai asked, turning slowly
to survey the seats. There were no takers for a long moment, and then another
Mother in the back stood.

"Mother Ginai, I call the Question. Shall the Clan of Females formally request
of the Human government of Folctha that the Clan assume responsibility for
refugee camp construction, maintenance, administration, and the distribution of
aid?" She sat.

"The Question has been called. Since there are only arguments for, and none
against, I propose to determine consensus by acclamation, unless there is
dissent....?" Mother Ginai looked around again. "Hearing no dissent, all in
favor, speak *yes*." The resulting barked **YES** was deafening. "All against,
speak *no*...?" The hall was silent. "Then we have an accord. The Clan of
Females will so request of the Human government."

There was a general susurrus of whispers, which again trailed off as Mother
Ginai raised a paw. "To the second Question...," she cleared her throat with a
*hrrrm* noise, "...shall the Clan of Females petition the Human Folctha Colony
government for aid in establishing a full Colony of Females elsewhere upon the
world of Cimbrean, going further than the existing Enclave in the city of
Folctha?"

A middle-aged Mother several rows from the front stood at once, beating others
to their feet by only a second or two, and was gestured forward. The others sat,
awaiting their turn, and she descended the steps as other Mothers moved out of
the way to allow her to pass.

"I am Mother Menni, and I speak against this Question," she said.

Mother Ginai duck-nodded in acknowledgement, and gestured with one fore paw to
the room. "Speak, then, Sister."

"Cimbrean is not our home," Mother Menni said bluntly. "Gao is. Great Father
Daar has promised to cleanse Gao of the monsters that plague it, monsters who
were our own people. He has promised to rebuild. To claim, at this time, that
the Clan of Females will build a *home* on an alien world is to, once again, say
publicly that we do not honor the ancient Contract that is what we *are*, that
we do not *trust* Stoneback, after the Mother-Supreme has renewed that Contract,
and would say publicly that we do not submit to Great Father Daar." She surveyed
the room, which sat in silence, pondering.

"We cannot, at this point in our history, undermine Stoneback. Not submitting to
the Great Father is... not an option. Sisters, this is something we cannot do.
We *must* not." She returned to her seat; before she had taken two steps,
another Mother surged to her feet and began moving forward to speak.

"I am Mother Kyrie, and I speak for this Question," she said, walking up to
Mother Ginai and hardly waiting for an acknowledgement. Ginai duck-nodded again,
and gestured to the room.

"Sisters, we are faced with a situation unlike anything in our history since
Mother-Supreme Tiritya forged the first Contract with Great Father Fyu. We are
faced, not with the eternal dance with the Males of our race, but with
*extinction* at the hands of a foe whose evil I struggle to comprehend.
Stoneback, the Humans, and Great Father Daar, sent us *here* to take shelter, to
recover, and yes, to rebuild. Homes, for Females and for cubs, is wherever we
happen to be."

"Menni is correct. Cimbrean is not our home... because we have not yet made it
one. We have lived in communes on Gao, on Gorai, and now here on Cimbrean, for
our entire recorded history. Now we are presented, at the hands of Great Father
Daar, with the opportunity for salvation... to rebuild not just the Gao we
remember, but our very people, and to do so forever beyond the reach of our
enemy. Great Father Daar wages war on our behalf upon our home world, and he has
sent us here, for sanctuary, to the newest home made by our only allies in this
fight."

"No, Cimbrean is not home. Let us seize the opportunity offered by the Great
Father, and honor the sacrifices that Stoneback and our Males make on our
behalf, and let us *make it so.*" Mother Kyrie nodded in acknowledgement to
Mother Ginai, and returned to her seat.

Another Mother, closer to the front, stood and made her way to the central
floor. She acknowledged Mother Ginai with a duck-nod and turned to face the
room.

"I am Mother Tiya, and I speak against this Question," she said. Mother Ginai
acknowledged her in return and indicated that she should speak with a paw-wave.

"While I believe Sister Kyrie is correct, that coming to Cimbrean for safety was
Great Father Daar's wish, I also believe that it is, and always was meant to be,
*temporary*. Part of the definition of a crisis, which this most certainly is,
is that such things are transitory, and if we are to rebuild our people, we must
do so with an eye to the future and a nose to the wind. We cannot... must not,
as Sister Menni said... place our home where we are not directly under the
protection of Stoneback. Doing so insults them, grievously, and we have given
them hurt enough with our distrust. Whether there was cause, or no, is beyond
me, and is beyond the ability of this Meeting to determine-debating that is
without merit. *We have renewed the ancient Contract*. The very Words of
Stoneback, their motto, are to *Provide and Protect*....for **us**. No Human has
ever sworn such an oath to a Female. Putting our future in the hands of aliens
is not acceptable, and I urge that the answer to this Question be a resounding
no." She returned to her seat, passing another young Mother who had been seated
up front, having jumped up the instant she was done speaking.

"I am Mother Laamu, and I speak for this Question," was her declaration. Mother
Ginai, seeing the trend in speakers, simply nodded, content to allow the younger
Females to wax eloquent without needing to direct them.

"Tiya, and all of us, have forgotten a fact about the Humans. They are not
aliens to us and they are not strangers. They are Cousins. Do we so quickly
forget Sister Shoo, who left Gao to try to prevent exactly what has happened
this last month from occurring at all? Do we so quickly forget her sacrifices,
her valiant defense of both Mother-Supreme Yulna and others? Do we so quickly
forget her taking the fight to the Hunters and single-handedly killing an entire
raiding party of them by herself, boarding their ship and destroying them with
her bare hands? Do we so quickly forget her clever hands teaching cubs to cook,
or her prowess at teaching them the ways of war?"

"That, Sisters, is what this Question is about. Do we make a home here, when we
have no idea how long, or ever, it will be before Gao can ever be a safe home
for us? Do we make a home in the very nest-bed of our Human Cousins?" She waved
a paw at the closed door. "There is an *entire planet full of Sister Shoo
outside these walls*. They are not like us... but they are the best Cousins, the
best resource, the best *protection* outside of Stoneback we could ever wish
for, which is why Stoneback sent us here, out of harm's way, that they could get
on with the bloody work at home and not worry about our safety." Laamu returned
to her seat.

Mother Ginai stood silent. No further speakers stood to address the group, and
she eventually ventured a thought.

"It seems we have a divided body, and from the arguments already advanced, I
think perhaps further time to consider is in order. If there is no dissent," she
paused, looking around, "...I believe a continuance is in order; this Meeting is
not ended, but we will close discussion for now. All attendees-you should
discuss this Question among yourselves, and with the other Mothers in the camps.
A consensus will present itself eventually-for now, we are adjourned."

---

**Date Point: 14Y 1M 3D AV**

**London, United Kingdom**

*Airlift* in any military's lexicon inevitably meant *royal fucking pain in the*
*ass* for loadmasters, pilots, ground crews, tower crews, and whatever other
usual traffic happened to be trying to use the same airport, runways, or
general airspace. It was with a sigh that the traffic controller crews at RAF
Northolt greeted the news that they were going to spend the next God-only-knew
how many hours negotiating traffic around a massive airlift that was coming in
across the European continent from Israel. Although the USAF for decades had
had a regularly scheduled airlink in roughly the same route, because this was
out of the main pattern, it was going to have an effect on "normal" operations.
The consensus was that it was much better to be at the UK end, and not at the
Israeli end, where the airlift was, in many cases, coming out of airports that
weren't used to handling heavy lift traffic.

Fortunately, the Israeli expertise with airlifts manifested itself in a well
choreographed, steady flow of aircraft that took into account what few
limitations the British had at the receiving end. A C5 Galaxy was followed by
another, and then several 767s commandeered from El Al airlines stuffed with
security personnel, doctors, nurses, surgical teams, vehicle mechanics and
drivers, logistical technicians, and a bewildering assortment of other
professions. Cargo payloads were quickly matched to the staff that went with
them; the vehicles with their loads were driven off the big cargo aircraft
almost before the ramps came down, and the aircraft lingered on the tarmac only
long enough to take on fuel for the return trip, while the next group was
landing, de-planing, and getting organized.

It went on for hours, each iteration bringing an expanded collection of materiel
and personnel that built on the prior loads during the day. One controller on
the early afternoon shift made the mistake of remarking out loud that things
were going well, and was rounded upon by his superstitious coworkers
immediately, summarily forced to wear a dunce hat for the rest of the shift, and
had to buy the entire tower crew drinks at the end of the day to relieved and
good-natured teasing.

At the jump portal to Cimbrean, things got a little more complicated. The power
cycle of the jump portals and the need to synchronize them meant that the
people, machines, and supplies could not go through as quickly as they were
arriving, and they had already been operating at capacity sending through
foodstuffs. It took nearly two days for everything to be sent through.

---

**Folctha, Cimbrean**

***Rav Samal (Chief Sergeant)*** **Moshe Harel, IDF**

Stepping onto an actual, real alien world in the flesh was oddly anticlimactic.
In the movies, things were accompanied by something that immediately
demonstrated that one was in a place that was different. About the only thing
Moshe could clearly identify as being *different* in Folctha was that the air
was cleaner and smelled much less like centuries of culture and bad plumbing.
That, and it had been mid-morning a moment ago and now was at dusk under a
completely different set of stars. He shook off the sense of the oddly familiar
and attended to the work in front of him.

It had been nearly four years since Moshe and his squad had spotted a lone van
sitting unattended and by itself near their checkpoint. After discovering what
had been *in* the van, he had abruptly changed his life plans and had decided to
go career on little more than a sense that there was more to come. He'd
questioned his decision occasionally ever since, but the revelations from the
American President a few weeks earlier had cemented that it had been the right
one, and the decision of the Knesset had only lent him additional resolve. It
had put him at the head of the line to volunteer for relief duty on Cimbrean,
one of the first to follow the urgings of *tzedekah* and perform a *mitzvah*
unlike any of his forefathers before him. His parents and sister had originally
been nonplussed at his decision; his mother had actually yelled at him and
twisted his ear when he'd come home on leave after deciding to go career, but
today she bragged about him to any that would listen.

No, he knew he was in the right place, and at the right time... and if he was
honest about it, the idea of pulling duty with the Gaoians that everyone had
seen in the broadcasts had him nerding out a little. Right now, however, he had
a job to do; cajoling his junior platoon members into clearing the jump pad as
quickly as possible so that the next exchange could take place was as easy as
pointing a direction, hoisting himself up onto a floorboard, and riding on the
outside of the vehicle to a large and obviously hastily arranged staging area. A
frazzled-looking female Cimbrean Colonial Security officer waved them through
with lit wands to another with simply a reflective vest and gloves who looked
equally tired. Moshe hopped off as the truck was about to go past to talk to
her.

"Help you?" she said tersely.

"I think it's the other way 'round, ma'am," Moshe replied. "Do you have relief
coming?" The look she gave him was more than clear enough an answer. "How long
have you been out here?"

"What's today?" she returned with a humorless, tight grimace.

"Okay, so we have a ton of stuff coming through today-major airlift into the
London jump station. You're gonna be at this for a long time getting us through.
How about you contact your CO and I see if we can give you some help. What do
you think?" She didn't even pause, pulling her mic up to her face and calling
for an officer to attend her station.

As it happened, the response wasn't who she was expecting. As he pulled closer,
she pulled herself tiredly erect. "Sir... Chief... I didn't think I'd see you
down here at this hour, sir." The shorter Latino man waved a hand at her to
relax.

"Carry on, Medina," the man said "I'm Chief Ares. What's going on?"

"I happened, sir," Moshe said. "Moshe Harel, Israeli Defense Force. I'm here
with a big aid package from the State of Israel, and when I saw how tired your
people were... I think we can take over traffic duty, sir. Let your people get
some rest, both of these two look like they've been at this all day."

"Aid package, huh?" Ares said, looking at the vehicles that had pulled to a halt
neatly and had greenish-brown uniforms dismounting. The rumbling of wheels on
pavement behind him warned him, and he stepped off the road and let Medina
direct the next several trucks coming through. "How big is it?"

"We'll have loads coming through as fast as the jump portal can charge and send
them, sir. I'd guess we'll be at this all night and tomorrow at the very least;
several mobile hospitals, support vehicles, and a lot more I haven't even been
told. My country has decided to aid the Gaoian refugees with as much as we are
able. I'm just the first wave."

"It'll be welcome," Ares said grimly. "We have refugees pouring in from Gao as
fast as they can send them through, and it's overwhelming us. All right-I'll
need to leave a liaison officer with you and link you into our comms, but I
think we can manage that. Medina, gather up Flores over there and go home. I
don't want to see either of you back on duty for at least 12 hours, starting
right now. Go."

"Sir," she acknowledged, handing Moshe her light wands and nodding in thanks.
She left without another word, waving the other CCS officer over on her way out.

"My unit is mostly MP's, sir," Moshe said. "We'll take care of things-if we
can help and give some of your other people involved in logistics or direction a
break, just say the word." He said a few words over his radio, and two of the
IDF MPs jogged over from the rest of the unit. Moshe handed off the light wands
and gave them quick instructions on where to direct the next set of trundling,
heavily laden trucks coming through.

Ares watched them working, then shook himself. "*Bueno*, I'll leave you to it.
I'll send somebody down to liaison with you as soon as I can free them up. Oh,"
he paused. "Wait. How are your people with the Frontline implant?"

"We were all given the treatment several days ago-everyone tapped to come
through," Moshe told him. "It wasn't a fun acclimation process, but necessary."

"*Madre de Dios*, isn't that the truth," Ares asked rhetorically. "That's
outstanding. Ok, I'll send somebody your way. Thank you, Sergeant." He left,
talking on his radio to whatever the next crisis was.

---

**Date Point: 14Y 1M 5D AV**

**Folctha, Cimbrean**

***Aluf Mishne (Colonel)*** **Tidhar Matusov, Israeli Defense Force**

The last of the Biblical-sized tide of IDF troops and personnel finally came
through the jump portal from London nearly 48 hours after they had arrived in
the United Kingdom. The portals at both ends had been cycling as quickly as
possible, load after load and vehicle after vehicle transiting, then making
their way out to the staging area until a full-sized convoy was ready to go.
First through had been the MPs for traffic control and the materials for a base
and buildings on massive trucks, followed by supply materials of every
imaginable type, then food, water, medical supplies, and then, finally, a full
battalion of troops, aid workers, doctors, nurses, engineers and three
completely self-contained mobile hospitals.

The convoys had been rumbling through the streets of Folctha and out to the
refugee camps in a steady river of men and materiel. *Rav Samal* Harel's unit,
as the first unit through, had also been tasked with finding a good location,
which they had done. It was more or less central to the plotted-out camp
structure, had decent access to the thoroughfares that had been created by
default to move both refugees and supplies, and was in a good position to
accommodate further expansions of the camps if it proved necessary. Harel's unit
had staked out several acres, marking ingress and egress points, outlining the
boundary fence, and had surveyed for one of the three hospitals, command
bunkers, barracks, a warehouse, field generators, forcefield emitters, and,
perhaps most crucially, the planned jump portal to Tel Aviv.

Crowds of curious Gaoian cubs gathered to watch as the Human soldiers arrived, many
jumping and chirruping with excitement to anyone that would listen. Mothers also
watched, trying to keep an aloof demeanor and keep an eye on the cubs, but no
less interested at the sudden development. Truck after truck was waved through
by the MPs, pallets of supplies being offloaded by three-wheeled forklifts and
placed in neat stacks according to where they would be needed and the priority
in reaching each one. Several portable excavators made their way to the surveyed
boundaries of the camp and began to work their way around, delineating the
boundary and making it clear where the ever-curious cubs *shouldn't* be
standing.

The first buildings to go up didn't actually look like buildings at all. They
came off of trucks in gigantic blue rubberized shrink-wrapped packages, and each
was placed at one end of its intended destination, cut open, and a hose run to
it from a nearby water tanker truck. Water was run in for several minutes, then
the entire thing was cut open, dragged out via a vehicle's tow hitch, and then
each one hooked up to a blower which inflated it like a gigantic [concrete
balloon](https://youtu.be/Vb1pdvvoVoQ). There was a collective "ooooooo" from
the cubs that could see, with younger or smaller ones in the back demanding
loudly to see whatever new marvel it was that the Humans were debuting. Once
erected, however, all they did was to spray the structures with additional
water, and then all walked away leaving the blowers going. The buildings,
actually, looked a great deal like a mature Nava grub about to pop, which
occasioned a lot of chittering among the cubs that noticed it.

From somewhere in the middle of the scurrying horde, Matusov surveyed the work,
directing as needed with as few words as possible and occasionally giving
direction via his radio, or responding to a request from the Cimbrean Colonial
Security forces. Chief Ares had been as good as his word at getting both a
liaison officer and access to their comm channels, and thus far the two
unfamiliar forces had managed to stay out of each others' way. He had an awning
set up with a table, upon which there were some crudely-drawn maps that his
people had hastily put together. CCS had not been able to provide full
schematics of the camps, mostly because the tents kept getting taken down and
moved, and tracking who was who and where was much like trying to keep the ocean
back with a broom.

His liaison officer spoke on the radio briefly, then approached him. "Sir, the
CCS has identified two spots for the other two hospitals to set up." He pointed
to two places in turn on the map. "Here... and here There are a couple of level,
open spots there where the trucks can set up."

Matusov nodded in thanks. "Tell CCS dispatch thank you. Get that information to
the drivers, if you would, please."

"Yes, sir... there are two other items as well, sir. There are a couple of
surgeons coming out from Sara Tisdale Memorial Hospital to talk about treatment
for Gaoians. They should be here in about ten minutes."

"Noted. And the other?"

"There is a delegation of the Clan of Females asking to speak with you, sir.
They're at the front where the trucks are coming in."

"I'd best go talk to the Gaoians and say hello, then," Matusov said. He excused
himself, beckoned to an aide to come with him, and went up to the front,
standing aside as another load of something went rumbling past. Outside the
gate, there were five adult Females led by one with almost completely silver fur
and grey whiskers and a truly *enormous* crowd of Gaoian youngsters maintaining
a distance that he was somehow quite sure was not out of their earshot.

"Good morning," he greeted them, belatedly remembering to turn his arm-mounted
translator on, and repeating himself. The Female in the lead gave him a curious
duck-nod of acknowledgement. "I am *Aluf Mishne* Matusov, of the Israeli Defense
Forces, and I'm the commanding officer for this effort."

"Good morning, Colonel. I am Mother Ginai. I would say where I'm from, but I'm
no longer entirely certain that it is still standing, so simple introductions
will have to suffice."

"I am very pleased to meet you, Mother," Matusov replied. Somehow, addressing
her as 'Mother' seemed entirely natural, species difference be damned. "My
nation on Earth has joined others for the Gaoian Crisis. We are offering
military aid, to be sure, but our primary focus will be the relief effort."

"That is excellent, Colonel. May we come into your ...camp? I would talk
further, away from prying little ears." She didn't even glance at the crowd of
cubs, but suddenly, a wave of *I just remembered something else I had to do*
went through the entire lot. The set to Mother Ginai's ears was definitely
amused.

"Of course, Mother. You are all welcome, please, come right this way." He
motioned with one hand, ushering them inside. "I do have a meeting with some of
the medical people from Folctha's hospital in a few minutes, but since it's
about us providing medical services to Gaoians, I suspect you'll want to be
present for that. We would welcome your help." As they walked, all of the
Mothers were looking around curiously, observing the bustling human activity in
every direction.

"Your people are very... industrious, Colonel," one of the Mothers ventured.

"We're proud to have a mission of this importance, Mother," he replied. "My
government, and our people, consider aiding the Gao a moral imperative of the
highest importance. All of the personnel you see here are volunteers... and to be
honest, we had to turn people away. We had more volunteers than we had room to
accommodate."

A few minutes later, they had arrived at a relatively quiet corner of the new
base, away from the constant rumbling of trucks and most of the directions being
shouted to and fro. Matusov's aide had had chairs brought, and they sat in a
loose circle.

"I'll get right to the point, Colonel," Mother Ginai said, once they were all
seated. "We're guests here, of course, in Folctha. The response from Humanity
has been... overwhelming in its level of support. One can only contrast that
against the utter lack of support and relief coming from our supposed allies in
the Dominion."

"That being said, however, we had a Meeting of Mothers several days ago, for the
very first time anywhere other than the surface of Gao in our peoples' history,
and to give you some idea how rare that is, if I understand human history well,
the last such Meeting occurred before your people made First Contact... and the
time before that was before you had discovered flight. The question resolved by
our assembly was that we will be requesting a greater hand in administering the
refugee crisis here on Cimbrean. Your arrival, I am afraid, may have complicated
that somewhat."

Matusov held up a hand, smiling. "Our sole purpose here, Mother, is to provide
and coordinate relief supplies, what we call a 'humanitarian' effort, although
the word doesn't strictly apply under the present circumstances. Our current
command oversight on the ground here is the Colonial Security force; we'll be
building a jump portal directly to Tel Aviv here for additional supply and
enough warehouses and barracks here to house supplies and people, but if you're
concerned about us patrolling your camp, no. We aren't an occupying force at
all. We can provide additional manpower for such things, but that isn't our
mandate, and I would be very hesitant to take that on. The risk of cultural
misunderstanding would, I think, be unacceptable to both of us."

"Will you, then, be content to take direction from us?" Mother Ginai pressed
him.

"I am confident that we can reach a solution that we are all satisfied with,
Mother," he said. "This is not the first time that I have worked to support
other organizations, and accepting direction from you is, in my mind, no
different."

"In fact," Matusov went on, "I would be pleased to host a delegation of Mothers
here within the next few days-let me get our logistics set up and the camp
organized a bit first-and we can arrange things to everyone's satisfaction.
The question I would be asking of you, Mother, is how we can support you. We
don't need an answer now, of course, but it is something to consider."

Mother Ginai splayed her ears out thoughtfully. "We need... everything. Your
people have supplied us with food, with water, with shelter, with organized
restrooms, but the fact remains that there are already far more of us on
Cimbrean than the *entire* population of Folctha, by a wide margin, and there
remain millions of surviving Females and cubs that need to be evacuated." The
other Mothers with her all nodded.

"Mother, we have *many* more resources to bring to bear here," Matusov said,
finally. "The primary bottleneck in getting it here is the jump portal, which is
why we're building another directly to Israel." He nodded a short distance away,
where crews were assembling rebar and pouring concrete at an impressive pace.

"What we need," said a younger Mother, "is hope, and for that we must begin to
direct our own destiny. This has been done *to* us, and to regain our
equilibrium, we must do *for* ourselves."

"And not just us," said another. "The cubs, particularly the older males, need
something to do that is active and keeps them busy. Continuing to depend upon
them to help with the younger cubs will not do; the older males are already
getting fractious and rebellious. They must be given something... something
useful, and productive... to do. At their ages, they would typically have been
contemplating a year or two from now making a bid for a Clan, or taking up a
trade with the Clanless-here, they are adrift with no future at all, and that
will not do."

"Perhaps we can help find something to occupy them," Matusov replied. "I somehow
doubt we will lack for tasks to put willing hands to."

A man and two women came bustling up, trailing a soldier in the IDF green/brown
uniform, and all three looking quite out of place in the camp. Seeing the
Mothers sitting with Matusov, they visibly relaxed somewhat. Matusov's aide
introduced them as William Herrera, Sarah Janus, and Emily Masterson, from the
Sara Tisdale Memorial Hospital of Folctha's Board of Directors. Additional
chairs were brought, they were seated, introductions to the rest of the group
were made, and refrigerated bottles of water produced from somewhere for
everyone.

"Welcome," Matusov began. "We were just discussing our contribution to the
Gaoian Crisis relief effort. I apologize for not contacting you yesterday," he
said to the three humans, "But I was trying to ensure that all of this got
through the portal from the United Kingdom in good order and that my people got
where they were supposed to be, to start off with."

"I understand you have brought three... hospitals?" William asked.

"Yes, that's correct-they're field hospitals, but they're fully equipped up to
and including the ability to do surgery, intensive care, and stasis transport to
a permanent facility," Matusov said smoothly. "We had envisioned interfacing
with your facility's expertise in nonhuman medicine as well as identifying help
among the Gaoians." He nodded to Mother Ginai. "I assume, Mother, that you
probably have medically trained people among you."

"I am sure we have some," Ginai said. "We will have to check."

"We will need you," Matusov said frankly. "Our doctors and surgeons all are
well-qualified for human medicine, but not so much with your species. We will be
depending on you, and on the staff from the hospital, for consultation-and,
Doctor," he said, turning back to William, "We are more than happy to fill in
any staff vacancy needs you have with our people. Perhaps we can work out a
trade."

---

**Later that day**

Seeing a *thousand* Humans all arrive at once in gigantic vehicles (some of
which were electrical, but most of which were the soot-belching internal
combustion sort) and begin digging out a base in the middle of the camps had,
for most of the cubs close enough in camp to have seen it, been easily the high
point since they arrived. They speculated amongst themselves about the Human
propensity to dig, everywhere they went-inside the base perimeter, there were
literally *dozens* of tool-wielding soldiers industriously excavating holes here
and there according to some mad plan. Trucks containing supplies and material
pulled up, disgorging their loads, or taking on additional-several appeared to
have been fitted with variable geometry field emitters and were having loads of
gravel, water, and other components put into them, mixed thoroughly, and then
disgorging slurry onto hastily-assembled beds of steel rebar that had been wired
in place.

The most perplexing thing, however, was a goodly-sized team of Humans who
started unpacking cinder blocks on the *outside* of the marked-out base, along
one entire side. These, they set in place, dumped piles of charcoal down, and
put down long metal grilles atop the blocks. The purpose for this was almost
immediately apparent to those cubs old enough to have seen something very
similar in Clanless workhouse arrangements to feed laborers on large projects,
and those who knew what it meant refused to leave the vicinity, salivating.

It meant Food. A *lot* of food... and soon.

As the sun went down, a domed barrier shimmered into existence overhead to
shield from the nightly rain, the charcoal was lit, and tub after tub of
delicious-smelling meat and fresh vegetables were set out. They were clearly
prepared to feed as many as possible.

The Mothers seeing this, of course, spread word to the other camps, and within
*minutes*, it seemed, the entire refugee population had been alerted that
Something was happening. Word quickly filtered back that the other two sites,
where the hospital trucks and supplies had been sent, were also making similar
preparations. Without direction, seemingly of their own accord, nearly the
entire Gaoian population on Cimbrean began to filter in one of three directions.

The tantalizing scent of cooking meat began to waft over the crowd. The soldiers
that had been doing most of the work inside the base's perimeter were directed
to put down shovels and other tools, and, understanding that there was
desperation and hope outside, resolved to keep things as calm as possible.
Chicken drumsticks, whole chickens, half chickens, Deathworld vegetables of
every shape, color, and description, hot dogs, *corn* dogs (which were an
enormous hit with everyone, and which were the first thing to totally run out),
all came off the heat almost as fast as they were being snatched up. ESNN's
aired footage of a small female cub lying on her back, trying to eat an enormous
grilled half-chicken held in all four paws by herself made it back to Earth, was
aired by CNN, and resulted over the next several months in an entirely new class
of memes as well as a noticeable uptick in military enrollment, charitable
giving, and applications to emigrate to the colony of Folctha.

Watching the nigh-on feeding frenzy unfold, Colonel Matusov thought back to some
of the things the Mothers had said earlier, about idle hands, and about hope.
His cousin was a lead violinist for the Israel Philharmonic in Tel
Aviv-perhaps he could help with the latter. For the former, he already had an
idea. Most of these young males were likely to be headed into the Gaoian Grand
Army at some point-he had been watching video and had talked to some of the
American officers deployed to Gao that he'd been friends with for years. The
Great Father had in mind to raise an army *billions* strong?

Well. Military discipline solved *lots* of different tasks. They'd just have to
see.

---

**Date Point: 14Y 1M 2W AV**

**The Thing, Folctha, Cimbrean**

Membership of The Thing's House of Representatives was sought-after by some,
seen as irritatingly necessary by others, and overall unimpressive to most of
Folctha's residents. Since the colony had begun its own self-governance in a
quasi-limbo legal state, the surprising result was that, like the taxation
structure that emphasized personal fitness, it had resulted in a surprisingly
high amount of public participation in colony governance. Voting was typically
greeted by extremely high rates of votes cast vs. absolute population numbers,
and the idea of a civic duty meaning something real was much less of an
ephemeral or laughable concept than a similar arrangement on Earth might have
been.

It was with some excitement, then, that the Representatives received, for their
next session, a request from the refugee camps' Clan of Females for an audience.
Nobody was particularly surprised by it, exactly, since they had assented to
allowing the Clan to use the building for their own meeting, whatever it had
been. Everyone figured that there might be *something* to come out of that, and
most were very interested in what that might be-there was speculation that
they might ask for representation in The Thing, but most of the informed
opinions wagered on a change in camp management of some kind.

If the Gaoian Mothers entering the Thing were discomfited by the fact that they
were, quite literally, surrounded by Deathworlders, they didn't show it; in
fact, they showed much less nervousness than the lone Rrrrtktktkp'ch that
represented the Alien Quarter. Mother Ginai led the way, followed by four other
Mothers, looking around and noses sniffing the air as they entered, and made
their way to the center of the debate floor to speak.

"Good evening, Representatives," she began. "The Mothers would like start by
thanking you for the use of your hall. We met and discussed many things, some of
which is still under discussion."

There was a murmur in the hall from the assembly. Mother Ginai forged on over
the minor interruption.

"We did, however, arrive at a consensus on one topic-we wish to thank you,
again, for opening your homes, your hearts, and your hands to us, and we believe
that the time has come for the Mothers to take over administration of the camps.
You took the burden of providing for us upon yourselves, and we may never be
able to truly thank you for it. We are now at a point of recovery, however,
where we are able to at least coordinate the relief effort and relieve you, in
turn, of that burden."

A Representative rose to reply. "It has been an honor to be of service to the
Gao. I think I can speak for this entire Assembly when I say we are humbled by
the opportunity, and we are very, very glad to be able to hand off the burden of
administration to the Mothers." He bowed, to scattered applause of agreement.

"We realize that there will continue to be some involvement from the colony's
leadership in coordinating the continuing supply needs of the Gao," Mother Ginai
said. "If you would appoint a representative from this body, perhaps to work
through Chief Ares' office, we would be pleased to have a single point of
contact for coordinating such things."

"Thank you, Mother, for your counsel," the Speaker replied. "You should know, as
well, that this body agreed before you entered to have an invitation extended to
a delegation of representatives from the Gao to attend, witness, and participate
without a vote in this body's deliberations. We welcome your input, as friends
of Humanity, and as representatives for our population of guests, while you
remain."

Mother Ginai and the others conferred for a moment, and then turned as one to
bow in acknowledgement. "We are very pleased to accept your invitation."

---

**Date Point: 14Y 1M 3W AV**

**HMS Sharman, Folctha, Cimbrean**

**Toran and Tybal**

"Shhh..."

"*You* shhh.... I'm already ssssh'ing."

The two cubs, having crept past the outer fence surrounding the base, slinked in
behind a short hedge and remained motionless. It was late enough that the
nightly rain had, overall, stopped, but early enough that dawn was still several
hours away. Toran led the way, with Tybal a close shadow at his heels, and both
of them watching eight directions at once. This was the home of the SOR, after
all... the biggestest, scariestest humans and Clan of all. Even scarier than
*Stoneback*.

The two young Males had decided that, with their age of majority coming up, a
proper bout of mischief was warranted before they were too adult and had to be
all serious. The male Clans were utterly in disarray following the events on
Gao, but both of them felt they were clearly elite Clan material; these were
extraordinary times, so getting the attention of the Clan they both wanted to
join, Whitecrest, was going to take something extra. Being efficient and doing
both Mischief and getting the Clan's attention at the same time was, they felt,
exactly what an elite Whitecrest operative would do.

It had been Toran's idea. The afternoon they'd been assigned to latrine duty,
they had found themselves working within a clear sight-line of the back of the
Human base, and they'd been able to see the gigantic Humans and the Clan members
of SOR doing... something... outside that looked tough and physical. They had
forgotten all about whatever it was they'd been arguing about, and had seized on
the idea of sneaking in to see what the SOR was doing. Toran had just wanted to
sneak in and look around, but Tybal had, as was typical for the two of them, had
a Different Plan. Why just sneak in, when you could sneak in and *do* something?
Several weeks had gone by, and the two of them had steadily pilfered the
supplies for their adventure they were going to need. Stunningly, none of the
rest of the cubs in their usual group of friends had picked up on what the two
miscreants were planning, and it didn't seem like Mama Seema had caught on,
either.

Tybal was in charge of the climbing supplies. Toran, being the (self-declared)
better artist, had claimed the cans of bright yellow marking paint that one of
the IDF surveying crews had left unattended for a few moments. Everything was
secured in packs they had scrounged and put together to prevent any untoward
noises, and tonight was the night. Creeping on soft feet, they had evaded the
sentry (who was probably half asleep anyway), scaled the fence, and were now at
the base of the water tower. Tybal unslung his pack, getting out a rope and
gloves for each of them while Toran kept watch. Both were simultaneously utterly
convinced that nobody had seen them yet and also that the entire SOR were
waiting to pounce on them from the bushes at any moment.

A quick loop of rope over the lowest horizontal beam got them as far as the
ladder that started about ten feet up, and from there it was easy to scale the
tower. The really *hard* part came when they got to the top of the tower and
realized that their intended target, the flattened top of the oval water
reservoir, was going to take a bit more work, but they managed it without too
much difficulty. Once at the top, Toran took out a can for each of them and
busied himself doing the outlines while Tybal filled them in. It wouldn't be
visible from anywhere except directly overhead, but *they* would know it was
there. They quickly finished work, stashed the cans back in Toran's pack, and
descended the tower, chittering softly and convinced they'd gotten away with it.

As Tybal was stashing the rope, however, intent on leaving nothing behind to say
that they'd been there at all, a shadow detached itself from one of the massive
vertical supports for the reservoir.

"So. Whatcha doing?" A *large* adult male with a prosthetic left hand and a
white topknot of fur that nearly reached the tips of his ears leaned easily
against the big metal support, idly chewing on a stalk of dry grass. The cubs
froze, realizing that in terms of getting caught, this was probably *nearly* as
bad as it was possible to have been. "Let's see," he went on, sauntering over to
them slowly. "Climbing gear, backpacks, fresh yellow paint on your paws, and the
middle of the night in a secure military facility. Clearly you were having a
picnic and got lost, yes?" He looked up at the tower. "At least you had the good
sense to pick a target others have picked before you."

Tybal turned, instinctively looking for another direction to flee, and found
himself looking *up* into the teeth of another Whitecrest that looked like he
belonged in Stoneback, or perhaps a Naxas herd. *I didn't even smell him....*

"Oh no, little one. We're going to have *fun* with you," the behemoth growled
down at him, definitely **not** pleased. That was a *lot* of teeth, Tybal
realized, trying to back up into Toran and feeling his friend do the same thing.

The cubs both instinctively looked back at the first, marginally smaller male,
who was regarding them with a mixture of sympathy and sadism. "Brother, you're
going to need to be more careful with these two. You can't expect to keep
breaking your toys and still be allowed to play with new ones. I don't want a
repeat of last time, am I clear?"

They could *hear* the grin. "I've been practicing with the other Protectors.
They won't break until I'm ready for them to."

"Who is your Mother, and what camp is she in?" the smaller adult asked Toran.

"Mo... mother Seema," Toran replied. "She's in camp four."

"And what do you think she will say when I tell her where you two have been,
cub? Will she be pleased at your initiative?"

"...No, Father," they both said, sneaking a glance at one another.

"I should think not," he said. "Some level of shenanigans from cubs your age is
expected, and no Clan would ever accept a cub that had no motivation. I think it
is important, however, that you learn that there are limits... particularly when
you are dealing with humans and human holdings."

"Yes, Father," was the glum reply.

"Thurrsto, you and Faarek take our two new play toys over to that lovely
vertical obstacle course that Warhorse was so kind to introduce us to. They love
to climb, it seems. I'm interested in how their time stacks up against Great
Father Daar's. *He* certainly had the most bestest time with it, and I'm sure
they'll love it too." Another shadow materialized from the lee of a nearby
building to join the others, and the cubs were led away, tails dragging.

Regaari watched them go. When they were out of sight, he dropped to fourpaw and
began scenting out their ingress pathway. Major Powell was very likely going to
ask more questions when he spotted a pair of teenage cubs being run through an
obstacle course that had given *Daar* problems by the unkind attentions of two
Whitecrest HEAT members. The cubs' Mother was going to need to be told where her
erstwhile charges had gotten to, and it was probably best that she learn about
it before the rest of the authorities.

---

**Later**

Two young male Gaoians lay gasping for breath and utterly spent. Thurrsto was
attending to *watering* them with a hose, as it had quickly become quite a warm
day by mid-morning, and to their credit, they hadn't started complaining.
Regaari stood watching from the shadows of the command building balcony when
Powell walked up, a SOR-sized stainless steel mug of steaming tea in hand.

"How are the 'prisoners' doing?"

"Surprisingly well. They didn't give up. They went until they flat ran out of
energy and kept going until he couldn't Motivate them any further."

"You sound impressed."

"Their infiltration was... amateurish, but talented. With some training, those
two could be ghosts."

"Hmm."

Powell ambled down the stairs and over to the two gasping cubs. "Get up," he
ordered. As wrecked as they were, they scrambled to their feet as quickly as
they could.

"...You pair of bloody idiots could've got yerselves shot," he said simply. "An'
about the only reason you didn't is because we saw you comin' *days* ago an'
decided we'd *let* you break in as a kind of test... which, to be frank, you
failed. You are In Trouble, young men. *Deep* trouble. You have, in fact,
committed a major crime."

One of the cubs opened his mouth and Powell's hand shot up to indicate that he
would brook nothing other than total silence right now. "I wasn't finished," he
snarled, and the pair cringed. "First, the good news. We're impressed. You've
shown daring, initiative an' skill. Useful traits. The *bad* news," he added as
their ears came up hopefully, "is that talent an' daring aren't enough for us to
overlook a serious count of trespassing and vandalism. Which is why we've sent
for your Mother, and why you will be receiving a bloody harsh punishment, *which
you completely deserve."*

He let them stew in their shame for a second. "See out that punishment well,
conduct yourselves from now on in a way as befits would-be Clan, and *maybe*
we'll give you summat in the way of an opportunity later if you ask very, very
politely. Am I understood?"

Both cubs nodded numbly, unsure if it was proper or wise to speak to a very
large, very angry Human who was obviously the Father here.

Powell nodded. "Outstanding. I'm going to leave you in the capable hands of my
Protector here. Do *not* waste his time. Either of you. I'm currently in a good
mood, and that would make me ...unhappy." He sipped at his Tetley.

As luck would have it, Mother Seema arrived at that point. It was like watching
an oncoming tsunami or a tornado, or, Powell reflected to himself, like being a
farmer watching the Vikings come ashore. Her claws were extended from her
hind-paws and she was digging up little tufts of turf with every livid step. The
only thing the scene was missing was lightning. She stomped up to the teens and
managed to *loom* over both of them, despite being shorter and outweighed by
both of them. Thurrsto, standing behind them in vaguely her same direction of
travel, took a step back and gave Powell a *look* that clearly said *I'm not
getting paid enough to get in* ***her*** *way*.

Gaoians, much like Humans, had a nerve cluster between their neck and shoulder
that if grabbed just *so* was breathtakingly painful. Seema reached up, grabbed
each of them with one hand, and ignoring their yelps of pain, bodily dragged the
two of them nearly out of earshot of the rest of the group muttering
imprecations under her breath the whole way. She took a deep breath, deposited
them flat on their rear ends and stood over them, lecturing in a quiet, firm,
and truly *awful* tone that, despite being low enough to not hear actual words,
nonetheless managed to convey a full range of precisely how truly they had
fucked up. Neither, to their credit, even attempted to give her an excuse or
response.

"Now get up," she finally said, louder. "Over here. **Now**." She led them back
to Thurrsto, and looked up at him, managing somehow to still look *bigger* than
the enormous Whitecrest.

"Your name?" she asked tersely.

"I am Brother Thurrsto of Clan Whitecrest, Mother," he replied.

"You are taking charge of these two?" she asked. Thurrsto nodded. "Excellent. My
expectation is that their punishment will be profound, inventive, thorough, and
sufficiently public to deter others from even considering attempting anything
remotely similar. Am I understood?"

Thurrsto bowed in acknowledgement. "Yes, Mother."

Seema glanced back at the teens. "You will remain with Brother Thurrsto and the
Whitecrests until further notice. You may not come back to the camp until I tell
you otherwise." They nodded, staring at the ground, and without a backwards
glance she marched back the way she had come.

Regaari had come to stand next to Powell, and nodded to Thurrsto, who pointed
the cubs back to the obstacle course without a word. Powell took another long
pull of his tea.

"Bloody 'ell," he said finally. "Forget WERBS. Let's just point *her* at the
Hunters." Regaari nodded in agreement. "What did they graffiti on top of the
tower, anyway?"

Regaari smirked. "The Whitecrest *mon*. They certainly have ambition, and it
actually looks decent."

A rare smile plucked the corners of Powell's mouth. "Aye," he agreed. He
finished his tea and straightened up. "It'd be a shame to waste ambition like
that, I reckon. See to it they don't."

"With pleasure, sir."

"Carry on, Regaari."

---

**Date Point: 14Y 2M AV**

**HMS Sharman, Folctha Colony, Cimbrean**

**Thurrsto, Brother of Whitecrest and Clan SOR**

"They aren't giving up."

"No. I believe they're trying to impress you," Regaari replied.

"They're doing a credible job of it, Brother. Look at their vitals over the last
week." He handed Regaari a datapad. "Marked improvement in every category I'm
measuring. They're actually getting close to being able to complete this
obstacle course adequately, and after their first shot at it a week ago, that's
saying something."

Regaari mused, scrolling through the short data list. "This is that test
protocol you and Warhorse were working on for the 82nd and their training
efforts, isn't it?"

"Yes," Thurrsto replied simply. "We wanted to establish a baseline on training
from zero-all of us were already well-trained when we came here, after all."
He looked up at the two cubs. "I'll give these two this much. They're motivated.
I'm going to move them up to the next phase a week early, I think."

"Ah, you're going to take care of that other thing you were wanting to work on,
hmm?" Regaari cocked his ears, teasing. "Excellent. I'll leave you to it." He
handed back the data pad and sauntered away.

Thurrsto had spent the better part of the prior week alternately running Toran
and Tybal through the SOR obstacle courses and a watered-down version of their
exercise protocols, and stuffing them full of food. This was the sixth time
through the course today, and both were gamely trying and *utterly* failing to
climb the hemp net about a third of the way in. He walked, at the slow,
deliberate, leisurely pace that would have been instantly familiar to any
variant of any military service drill instructor on Earth. When he reached the
point the cubs were at, he stood below.

"Disgraceful. Get down here, both of you." He paused for a moment, just long
enough to allow them the sudden hope that the pain might end within their
natural life spans. **"NOW!!"**

Tybal came slithering down at what was obviously an attempt at a controlled
descent. Toran... plummeted... having let go and fallen, landing with all of the
elegance of a Hefty sack filled with gravy. Thurrsto loomed over the two, baring
his teeth down at them.

"With a performance that poor, the only hope for you two is to find
something... simpler... for you to handle. I would think after a week and six
tries *today*, you would have at least attempted to find a way to better
performance. Sadly, I've never found a punishment that makes cubs *think*
effectively. I think tomorrow I'll try something else. Something new.
Something... what was it your Mother said? 'Sufficiently public'?" He sniffed.
"Come. I don't recommend you stay up at all tonight. It'll make tomorrow worse."

"Here. Sleep. Morning comes early." The teens fell onto their assigned nest-bed
in a furry heap and were asleep almost before they landed. Thurrsto shut the
door thoughtfully.

---

**The next morning**

**Toran and Tybal, Clanless cubs**

Tybal was the first to awaken, possessing just enough cognitive awareness that
his sense of *something here isn't right* roused him a step ahead of Toran. He
blinked awake, and realized, simultaneously, two things.

One, he was surrounded by the largest adults he'd ever *heard* of outside of
Stoneback, or, perhaps, Emberpelt, who were staring down at him.

Two...*everything* hurt. Even his *fur* hurt, and even after a week of it, this
was a new level of discomfort.

"Oh good. You're awake finally," a voice growled. Tybal recognized the voice of
their enormous tormentor. "You, lads, get to play with some new toys today. In a
way, you've made some of our Human Brothers very, very happy, because they got
to build something they've been wanting to. First, though, you need to eat. A
lot. You're going to need it today."

The cubs groaned and rolled apart. Toran yelped a little as he, too, realized
that absolutely every part of his body, even the parts he'd forgotten he had,
hurt, worse than they had throughout the week.

"Up. Or I will water you again," Thurrsto growled. Remembering that particular
indignity from their first day, they scrambled awkwardly to their feet, standing
in a passable imitation of an 'attention' stance. They could *feel* the disdain
coming from the Brothers behind them.

Thurrsto grunted, then indicated with his muzzle that they were to come with
him. Wordlessly, they followed, still encircled by Whitecrest Brothers. Thurrsto
led them outside where a table piled high with food that smelled like it had
been marinated in Essence of the Divine sat next to a pair of metal carts with
wheels, two long handle-like attachments sticking out front like...

...like livestock carts.

*Oh*.

"Sit and eat, gentlemen. You're going to need every bit of energy you can get
today." The two didn't need any further encouragement and bolted for the table,
inhaling food nearly before they sat down.

As they finished, they were joined by two *extremely* large Humans that the
simple sight and scent of sent every sense either cub possessed or had developed
in their short life clanging with fear. Although they'd seen both from a
distance, up close these two were clearly predators, in a way neither had ever
encountered before. Two sets of eyes, one blue, one brown, and neither
particularly friendly, met theirs and evaluated them. Both Humans were
grinning... hungrily.

Thurrsto pant-grinned in a *most disconcerting* way. "You two have a choice. You
can let my Clan SOR Brothers here, Righteous and Warhorse, continue your
instruction; it will be similar to, but not nearly as pleasant as, your
experience on the obstacle course. Your other choice..," he held up a pair of
harnesses, "is to put these on and drag those carts wherever I tell you to go."

The cubs looked at each other, and then as one reached for the harnesses. They
nearly changed their minds when they realized that properly attaching them to
the cart was impossible while standing on two legs.

These... were going to require being on fourpaw. A look back at the two
still-grinning Humans, however, cemented their resolve. It took a few moments,
but finally they were hitched to their various loads and stood expectantly,
wondering what was going to happen next.

"I suppose you two are wondering exactly what part of this has to do with making
you think," Thurrsto said. "I was going to personally supervise your entire time
period of punishment in person, but watching you two continuing to squirm is
throwing off my delicate sensibilities, and rather than take something for it,
I've decided to deal with something else that requires my attention. Whether
that's fortunate for you is up to you to figure out."

"The camps have a problem that's gonna get worse if it's left alone, and that's
the problem of waste. Since so much of both camps are laid out over little
trails, the big movers aren't able to get in there and deal with the problem.
You're both young strapping lads... and no Female should have to handle trash.
Trash is a Male's job. Your job."

"So." Thurrsto stood, looming down at them. "You have yourselves, and you have
two carts. You will gather the trash from the camp and get it to the Human waste
disposal organization-this will continue until you have gotten it all." He
pointed up, at a barely-visible drone with cameras overhead. "We'll be watching
when we need something entertaining to watch. For this morning's starting point,
you will follow Warhorse on his first morning run. Try to keep up-if you lose
him, he won't be doubling back to check on you-he is Clan SOR, not a
babysitter."

Warhorse stepped out front, clad in little more than the short shorts that the
Human SOR Operators seemed to all wear, bouncing just a little on his toes and
with an enormous happy grin plastered across his face. "All ready?" he asked the
teens. "Okay. Here we go then." With that, he took off at a bouncing jog, both
cart-pulling Gaoians behind him and straining to keep up. Somehow, they managed
to stay in sight of his billboard-sized back all the way out of the base, up the
hill, and out to the still-being-built Israeli base that was at the natural
epicenter of the camps spreading out across the landscape.

They pulled up a few moments behind him, both gasping and winded already, and in
agony from the effort. Warhorse, for his part, wasn't out of breath at all, and
was pacing back and forth with exaggerated steps that displayed a *ridiculous*
amount of flexibility. The only saving part out of it for Toran was when he
noticed the jaw-dropping looks from the Humans inside the perimeter.

"You two okay?" he asked kindly. They both duck-nodded, heaving and utterly
convinced they were about to die. "Okay," Warhorse went on. "Your Brothers want
you starting right here, with this camp. Enjoy." With that, he turned and dashed
off at a pace that made it *abundantly* clear that he'd been actively trying not
to lose them before.

Toran and Tybal looked at each other, and set to it once their breathing had
returned to mostly-normal. They realized several things almost immediately; this
was going to suck, because the tents weren't set up into neat rows. It was going
to take *forever* because nearly every tent had quite a lot of amount of trash
already. It was going to suck, forever, because they were doing this job in
front of every last one of their peers and younger cubs that looked up to them,
and neither had any doubt at all that Mama Seema had advertised at least
something of the reason that they were doing it.

---

**Date Point: 14Y 2M 1D AV**

**Israeli Defense Force FOB, Folctha, Cimbrean**

***Rav Samal (Chief Sergeant)*** **Moshe Harel, IDF**

"Hooooooooooly SHIT!"

The startled expletive came from one of the work teams by the quickly-erected
border fence. Moshe ambled down to see what had happened, as he'd been looking
the other way and hadn't seen whatever it was they were gawking at.

"What's going on?" The group of three soldiers were still staring off into the
distance; whatever it was that had occasioned the comment was no longer in view.
Moshe looked after them, raising his binoculars to make sure and seeing nothing
out of the ordinary.

"That... guy. You didn't *see* that dude!?" one of the youngest, a new recruit
in her late teens said.

"No. What 'dude' are we talking about?"

"Fuck. Sergeant, I swear to God, that was the biggest fucking guy I've ever
seen. He just went sprinting by, didn't even say anything, and the only thing he
was wearing were these tiny exercise shorts. I swear, I felt the *ground* shake
and he wasn't even wearing *shoes*."

"Private."

"Yes, Sergeant?"

"You're currently standing on another planet, digging a hole so that we can help
protect a race of skinny raccoon people from invisible digital monsters. A large
naked man running past and giving you a funny feeling in your lady parts is
*far* from the most unusual thing you're going to encounter out here, so best to
focus on what you're doing and try not to get distracted."

"Yes, Sergeant."

"No matter how moist."

"Yes, Sergeant."

---

**Date Point: 14Y 2M 1D AV**

**Refugee Camp, Folctha, Cimbrean**

**Toran and Tybal, Clanless cubs**

Surprisingly, the job they'd been handed was difficult, but both more and less
so than they'd thought it would be. As Toran pulled up, lugging a heaping
cart-load of refuse that stunk to high heaven, he found himself pulling up next
to Tybal. His friend was up-ending the cart, having unhooked the harness and was
dumping the contents of it into a sizeable pile. They exchanged a look and
started chittering ruefully.

"This... isn't a good way to go about this," Toran said, unloading his cart next
to his friend's.

"We're being punished, stupid," Tybal said, his ears splayed out playfully and
removing the sting of the insult.

"Yeah," Toran said. "That's not what I mean, though."

Tybal cocked his head. "What do you mean?"

"Well, look. Brother Thurrsto said we were supposed to think, right?"

"Right."

"So... we weren't told *how* to do this, just that we had these carts, and we
were told that we were supposed to remove all of the refuse, right?"

"Right." Tybal thought for a moment. "So you think we should... what... find a
way to do this better?"

"Exactly. Doing this the obvious way isn't what a Whitecrest would do. That's
more of a Stoneback thing," Toran chittered softly at the thought. "On my route,
what took me the longest was getting the bags together and into the cart,
because they're never out by the trailside."

"Me too." An idea struck Tybal right between the ears so hard he nearly fell
over. "Great Father Fyu. I... just...."

"...had an idea." Toran's eyes went wide. "I bet I'm thinking the same thing
you're thinking."

The two cubs looked at each other with glee. Tybal led off, with Toran close at
his heels, one cart right behind the other, back into the camp. On their prior
trip, both had been sort of sulkily doing as they were told, loading up bags of
putrid-smelling refuse into their cart and dragging it willy-nilly along their
chosen trail. This time, though, they bounced along as though the whole thing
was a game of their invention... which, of course, it was to some degree.

They'd gotten no further than perhaps a half-dozen cart lengths into the next
pathway, when they were stopped by a young Mother. Behind her, crucially,
several very curious sets of eyes and ears peeked and poked through the bushes,
around trees, and over fallen logs.

"What exactly are you two doing, racing around on fourpaw and behaving like
draft animals?" she asked.

"Good morning, Mother! We've been asked by Clan Whitecrest to see to the trash
here in the camp!" Tybal said enthusiastically.

"I see. All by yourselves?" she asked archly.

"Yes, Mother. It's an extra-special duty that we earned, just the two of us,"
Toran replied. "The Brothers spoke to us this morning, and gave us these carts."

"Well, if you *earned* it, then you should get on with it, of course. Your
Mother does know what you're doing this morning...?" she asked.

"Yes, Mother. She knows where we are," Tybal said.

"Very well... slow down a little, though. Some of the little ones are still
asleep, and you're making a great deal of noise-I realize you have a lot of
work to do, and it's very responsible of you, but you must be patient," she
said, turning back to her tent. "Here you are." She held out a small bag of
trash, which Tybal took and tossed into his cart.

"Thank you, Mother!" They moved along quickly, and behind them a growing crowd
of *very* curious cubs followed, as stealthily as possible. When they reached
the end of the path and were ready to turn back, having gotten nearly everything
in one cart or the other, they found themselves cornered by nearly thirty
younger cubs led by a young male nearly their own age.

"How come Whitecrest picked ***you*** to take care of this? That's not fair!
You're going to be old enough to take the Rites soon, and they'll pick you for
sure. Nobody else is even going to get a chance!" Firin spat, his ears at a
nervous angle that belied his belligerent tone.

"Hey now, hey now," Tybal said smoothly. "Hang on a minute. We didn't exactly
*ask* for this, you know. They picked us for a reason, that's all I can say."

"I bet the Mothers would be furious if they knew you were trying to sway Clan
Trials like this," a much younger, big-eyed female cub named Ciera said. "You're
just trying to hog all the glory."

Tybal grimaced, and his ears splayed out shamefacedly. "Okay. I guess..." he
looked at Toran.

"No way. You heard Brother Thurrsto..," he trailed off to outraged shouts from
the group of cubs. "Okay! Okay!" he said placatingly. "We'll let you help... but
you have to promise you won't sell us out, here. The Clan Brothers picked us for
a **reason**...they didn't tell us we *couldn't* have help, but..."

Firin's ears took on a more determined set. "You're going to let us help, or
we'll turn you in," he declared. "And there's nothing you can do that will
convince me otherwise."

Tybal sighed. "Fine. We'll let you help, just... please, don't ruin this for us."

---

**Date Point: 14Y 2M 1D AV**

**Israeli Defense Force FOB, Folctha, Cimbrean**

***Rav Samal (Chief Sergeant)*** **Moshe Harel, IDF**

Word had quickly gotten around the base throughout the day about the Very Large
Mostly Naked Man running through the refugee camp; the truism that gossip
exceeded all known parameters on FTL remained confirmed. A high number of
interested female soldiers and curious male ones managed to find something to
plausibly be doing within a short distance of the border fence, and so the third
time that the guy came through, Moshe was a little better prepared and in
position. Sure enough, here he came... Moshe could *feel* the impacts of his feet
as he ran-barefoot-down the main thoroughfare from some distance away. The
man had to be one of the SOR-HEAT troops they'd seen online. Nobody else could
plausibly be...*that* big.

He stepped over to the fence and waved the guy down, curious despite himself and
fully realizing how many of his troops were trying *very* hard to find the
perfect line between being in earshot and far enough away to not get called out
for eavesdropping. The man skidded to a stop, wet with sweat but not
particularly out of breath.

"Hi!" He came over to the fence and gave him a handshake with an enormous
iron-like hand.

"...The fuck do they *feed you*?" was all Moshe could stutter out. The guy gave
him an enormous grin.

"Mostly all I can stuff in my face. I'm Warhorse, with the Spaceborne Operations
Regiment, but I kinda get the feeling you knew that part. Nice to see IDF here,
man. The colony can sure use the help." He bounced on his toes and the balls of
his gigantic feet.

"So what are you doing out here besides making all of the women in my platoon
flustered and nervous?" Moshe asked with a grin.

The gigantic slab of a man actually *blushed* at that and belly-laughed. "Ha!
Just out for a run; I needed to do something a little different for exercise
today, and had something else that brought me out this way anyway. Figured I'd
run thru the camp a few times...""

"Mmmhmm..."

"Hey! I'm *taken* and Marty wouldn't approve. Prob'ly."

"Marty? I mean... he must be a brave man." Moshe found *himself* blushing, then.

"What? Haha, no! *Martina,* my fiance!"

"I think you've just broken a lot of hearts." Indeed, behind him, he heard
several muttered curses.

Warhorse grinned smugly. "Yeah, ***she's*** possessive... anyway. It always helps
out CCS when one of us runs through town, even if we don't *do* anything in
particular, so..."

"So you thought you'd come out this way to play King Kong?" Moshe said, unable
to help himself. He was rewarded with an enormous and hearty laugh.

"I like that! Anyway-I got limited time here, so I gotta run. Seeya!" With
that, he darted off, if getting a hulk that size moving could be called
'darting'. Moshe turned around, and suddenly everybody in sight realized they
had Something Else To Be Doing Right This Minute, Sergeant. In moments the coast
was clear.

**An hour or two later**

Warhorse came thundering up to the IDF camp, and realized as he was passing it
for the fourth time that morning that this time was a bit different.

...He was being *cheered* this time for one thing, and some wag had obviously
been busy hooking up a *bitchin* sound system, solely to play what had to be the
[most appropriate choice of music ever](https://youtu.be/I33u_EHLI3w). Laughing
uproariously, he threw several lightning-fast jabs as he ran past, pumped his
fists over his head, and was gone.

Left behind inside the compound, several young women exchanged looks and went
back to work.

---

**Date Point: 14Y 2M 2D AV....** ***early***

**Thurrsto and Faarek, Clan Whitecrest**

Thurrsto sat in the barracks common area, pondering the video feed from Sikes'
loaner camera drone. Despite what he'd told the two cubs the day before, he
hadn't actually been actively monitoring them the day before, having had other
things to work on. He had done a quick video once-over, and had had to backtrack
to almost the beginning to understand what was happening and what his charges
had done with his instructions. He found himself chittering softly.

Behind him, the barely-heard whisper of soft clawed feet padded up as Faarek
joined him.

"Can't sleep?" Faarek yawned theatrically.

Thurrsto gave him a level look and handed over the datapad with the linked feed.
"Here. Our two would-be Whitecrests had quite a day yesterday. I wanted to see
what they'd been up to before I woke them up this morning."

Faarek dutifully scrolled back to the beginning and watched as the feed advanced
at a speed multiple, condensing it into something meaningful. His ears remained
where they were for a long moment, and then cocked quizzically, and he began
chittering as well.

"Your instructions to them appear to have been followed, Brother," he chortled.
"I'm interested in what, exactly, they *said* to the rest of those cubs... but
really. What were you expecting?"

Thurrsto imitated a human gesture he'd seen, usually on the faces of the SOR
techs when accommodating an unruly Operator, and pinched his muzzle right in
front of his eyes, shaking his head. "I suppose I should have anticipated this.
I'm sure Regaari would have. Great Father Fyu, now what??"

Faarek hadn't stopped chittering. "See it out. See what they make of it! Turning
a punishment into an opportunity is what a First Rite is all about, anyway. I
can't think of a more ...Whitecrest response, actually."

"I'll think of something," Thurrsto mused, taking the datapad back.

"That's what you said about..."

"...Yeah, I know. It'll work. I should have the rest of the ingredients in the
next day or two. I think I have the right presentation idea, I just..."

"You know," Faarek said thoughtfully. "I bet she would appreciate a fighting
knife. I have a Cousin in Ironclaw that does custom work; he actually has a shop
here on Cimbrean, he didn't work on Gao. She's well-known enough here, I bet he
would jump at the chance to make **her** something... special."

Thurrsto's ears perked up. "That is an *excellent* idea. I can put a note with
it too..."

"You're going to send her a ...*note*? Brother...." Faarek was serious now.

"I have better luck with the indirect approach... you and Regaari made sure I
knew that."

Faarek let out a whine of apology. "I'm sorry, Brother. You're right... and I'll
help you with this one."

---

**Date Point: 14Y 2M 1W 5D AV**

**The Thing, Folctha, Cimbrean**

**Sister Naydra**

It was with some trepidation that Naydra attended a Meeting of Mothers. By all
accounts, this was a continuation of a previous Meeting, which wasn't so
unusual-such Meetings were rare and never called for simple reasons that could
be easily resolved. What was unusual, however, was that she had been invited
specifically-normally, it was Mothers that would attend, not Sisters. The
Meeting could invite theoretically anyone they wanted to-when she reached the
building, shimmering in the afternoon sun, though, she realized why.

Myun was waiting for her outside, standing apart as well as head and shoulders
above the rest of the congregation. On seeing her, Myun beckoned her over
urgently.

"Sister! I am so glad to see you again, and looking well," she said quietly.

"I am... healing, I think," Naydra said. Myun duck-nodded, her ears set in
sorrow.

"I wanted you here specifically. I've been asked to speak as well, but you've
had experience that is... well, relevant, and it's experience I believe this
group needs badly to hear."

They filed in, trying and *utterly* failing to blend with the rest of the
crowd-Naydra because she didn't feel like she belonged, and Myun because she
simply intimidated her way through the crowd. Nobody seemed to want to be in the
way of the massive young Guard-Captain, although she was actively trying to be
polite.

They entered, and sat together, watching the hall fill. An elderly Mother with
white fur and silver whiskers stumped to the middle of the central floor and
stood, awaiting the seating of all of the Mothers attending. Finally, she rapped
on the floor with the butt end of a wooden staff until the chatting, chittering,
and noise of feet had stopped, and the hall was still.

"This Meeting of Mothers is called back to order. We meet to continue to discuss
a Question; shall the Clan of Females formally ask the human colony of Folctha
for aid in permanently establishing a Colony of Females upon the world of
Cimbrean?"

"When this body last met, we heard many arguments, for and against this
Question. We risk insulting Stoneback by building a home away from Gao. We were
sent, and are continuing to be sent in massive numbers, here from Gao as quickly
as the infrastructure here is built to handle our numbers, by Great Father Daar.
We do not know how long it may be before Gao is again safe for Females-Great
Father has promised us a return to our ancient homes, but cannot say when."

"We begin with testimony from Mother Myun, Guard-Captain for the Mother-Supreme.
Myun, come up if you please." Myun was already standing, a graceful, elegant,
and imposing sight as she stalked forward into the center and stood to address
the crowd.

"Thank you, Mother Ginai. Sisters, it is with a heavy heart that I must tell you
how things stand upon our homeworld now. There must be no misunderstanding-Gao
is not a safe place for Females right now, and it may never again be as safe as
it was before the attack began."

She began to pace back and forth as she spoke. "Sisters, there are multiple
dangers now upon Gao for Females. The Implanted continue to target us, to target
our cubs, first of all in an effort to destroy both our present and our future
in one blow. Would-be Clans of males are springing up, and Females are becoming
...currency. Hunger and disease are rampant, despite the best efforts of our
Males and of the Humans."

"Even if, today, every Implanted was laid to rest, and we were certain that none
remained behind, still we would have to fear the unfocused aggression and
predation of the strong upon the weak. I brought with me a Sister who has
experienced this brutality first hand, and to whom we must all listen." She
beckoned Naydra up, and Naydra found herself rising almost involuntarily,
walking out to the middle of the floor almost dreamlike. Myun leaned down to her
and spoke quietly.

"Just tell them all what happened to you. You don't have to give them details,
but, they need to hear it from you, Sister. I will be right here, next to you."
Naydra turned, nervously, and saw the room staring back at her with rapt and
expectant eyes.

"I... am Naydra. Sister Naydra. I was captured by a group of Clanless following a
vicious and stupid male who was a serial labor clan reject. He, and the males
that followed him," she paused, swallowing into a dead silence,
"...***gang-raped*** my sisters until several of them died. Koruum, however,
laid claim to me the day I arrived, and forced himself upon me multiple times
daily for a month."

Naydra's eyes really *saw* the room suddenly-the shock, the horror, the
compassion, the sorrow, the anger, the rage... it was all there, every bit as
much as she'd smelled in the room with Great Father Daar. It strengthened her.

"Sisters... Great Father Daar asked me many times if I was absolutely certain
that none of the males in that would-be Clan deserved mercy, and pleaded with me
not to watch their punishment, but in the end, I was certain they did not, and I
did. I... wish now I had heeded Great Father's warning, because the *cost* of
doing what had to be done to ensure that their example was both public and
extreme was a high one."

"Sisters, we cannot ask this of Stoneback. We, all of us, love our Males and the
cubs we are charged with protecting far too much to lay the burden of enforcing
such things upon them. Great Father Daar sent us to the arms of the Humans for
protection while he destroys the monsters that did this to us, and in his name,
I entreat this Meeting to see the truth."

"We must form a home here, because there is no other home for us now. Not now,
and maybe never again. Great Father knows this. He..." She paused, gathered her
courage, and continued. "When I was being... debriefed, I asked what he would do.
He said to me he would do 'whatever I wanted.' Then he proved it. He did an
awful thing in my... in *our* name. For *us.* He continues to do awful things.
And Sisters... Mothers... it is killing him to do it. I only met with him briefly
afterwards but there is a sorrow about him..."

Myun placed an enormous and comforting paw on her shoulder lightly. Naydra went
on. "I will not let his anguish be for nothing. He wants us *safe.* I would be
safe, here, where I will *never again* be touched by a male unless I invite him.
That safety... does not exist on Gao."

The murmur of approval that swept the hall prevented her from going on, and in a
way it was a relief to take her seat. Myun returned to the center to speak,
apparently not finished.

"Sisters, I am Mother Myun, and I speak for this Question. You have heard the
testimony of a survivor. Understand something. There are *millions* more Mothers
still trapped on Gao; as fast as the Great Father can send us through, time and
the reality of things prevent him from freeing all. Even if he were able to,
they would have to remain in the quickly-growing tent cities on Gao, surrounded
on all sides by dust, ash, ruin, and terror."

"We must form a Home for the Females here upon Cimbrean. There are no other
choices." Myun walked back to her seat, and sat.

Mother Ginai looked around the hall. "Thank you, Mother Myun. Are there others
who would offer thoughts on this Question?" The hall was silent.

"Then I call this Question, and ask for a vote by acclamation: shall the Clan of
Females formally ask the human colony of Folctha for aid in permanently
establishing a Colony of Females upon the world of Cimbrean?" The answering bark
of approval was deafening.

"Is there dissent?" Silence.

"Then we have a consensus. We will petition the Mother-Supreme and the Great
Father to so ask the human colony of Folctha. We are adjourned."

---

**Date Point: 14Y 2M 3W 3D AV**

**Folctha Colony Amphitheatre, Folctha, Cimbrean**

The Israeli earth-moving teams had been busy over the last two months, between
putting down actual gravel on the roadways through the camps to rein in the
daily issue of a gooey, sticky mud encrusting *everything* as well as building
up actual earthworks to delineate base boundaries and sidewalks in every
direction. One mysterious project that the IDF engineers had thus far refused to
discuss beyond the obvious, however, was an enormous amphitheatre just outside
of Camp 2 where it overlooked the city, carved out of a natural divot in the
hilltop. It was clearly not intended to be short-term, as much of the rest of
their work had been-this had the air of permanence, with good-sized stone
blocks lining the pathways and providing seating for a huge amount of
spectators. Rammed earthworks formed a stage, as well as a wall at the top that
was less a barrier and more a declaration that this was where the seating began.
The acoustics were as nearly perfect as possible, enabling even a speaking voice
at the bottom to be heard at the top row.

It was with some interest that the Gaoian Mothers watched this develop, but once
it became obviously some kind of place for performances, they discussed it
informally amongst themselves and decided that if the Humans wanted to surprise
them with something, it was probably best to let them, or even pretend they
hadn't noticed-the consensus was that properly managing Humans was much like
managing males. Most of the skillset transferred over nicely.

An announcement went out, once it appeared that the amphitheatre was completed.
The handbills were in Gaoian and English, and advertised an "Evening of Music
with the Israeli Philharmonic" from Tel Aviv... and, apparently, accompanied by
"guests" from the Israeli Defense Forces, although little more information than
that was given.

The performance was scheduled early enough in the evening that the piece would
be concluded, and everyone should have time to return home before the nightly
downpour started. As the sun began to descend towards the horizon, the audience
assembled; almost all Gaoian, but there were a considerable number of Humans
present as well. Some of the more sharp-eyed noted the four tents immediately
behind the musicians' places as seemingly out of place, but there was no
indication given what they were or why they were there.

Right on time, the performers began to assemble, the seats in the audience all
full to capacity and then some. Most adults, of both races, had at least one or
two cubs on their lap, and Bozo, the SOR mascot attending with Major Powell and
several of the Operators, was at the bottom of a slowly-squirming pile of fuzzy.
The conductor for the Philharmonic came out last in a black tuxedo, and walked
to the center of the stage, waiting for the buzz to die down.

"Ladies, gentlemen, and honored guests, We present to you the first of several
pieces we intend to play for you tonight, *Carmina Burana: Cantiones profanæ
cantoribus et choris cantandæ comitantibus instrumentis atque imaginibus
magicis,* a scenic cantata composed by Carl Orff. There are two other
compositions we will perform for you tonight as well, and we'd normally list
them on a Playbill, but... we would like to surprise you. Enjoy." He bowed with a
flourish, turned, and the music began.

---

**After the concert**

Gyotin found himself walking out of the amphitheatre just ahead of a good-sized
group of cubs with a Mother that looked familiar. He cast his thoughts back
several months as he slowed to match pace with them. The cubs, particularly the
older male ones, were waxing enthusiastic about the music piece and its
...accompaniments.

"It may be difficult to get them to go to sleep tonight," he said to her.
Seela...? Seema? Seema, that was it. She gave him a resigned nod. "What did you
think of it? It was very... human, I thought. The finale, particularly."

Seema said nothing as they walked for a long moment, and he realized she was
yawning a little, trying to equalize her inner ear pressure. *She was probably
sitting closer than I was to the guns.* Finally, she replied, "Only *humans*
would turn explosions and enormous cannons into music."
