---
title: "3 Mitzvah"
date: 2018-01-31
aliases:
 - /book/waters-babylon/3-mitzvah
---

# TWB - Mitzvah
***The Waters of Babylon***

---

*For You have been a defense for the helpless, a defense for the needy in his*
*distress, a refuge from the storm, a shade from the heat; for the breath of the*
*ruthless is like a rain storm against a wall.*  
*Like heat in drought, You subdue the uproar of aliens; like heat by the shadow*
*of a cloud, the song of the ruthless is silenced.*

*-Isaiah 25:4-5*

---

**Date Point: 14Y 4M 2W 1D AV**

**AEC Command Center,** ***Camp Outfield,*** **Lavmuy Spaceport, Gao**

**Colonel Martin Schul**

The morning status meeting was a somber affair; enough attendees had gotten the
same flash alert that Colonel Schul had, so his opener surprised few.

"We've failed to contain the infection, and it's reached the general population
outside the quarantined zone," he said bluntly. Those that hadn't heard looked
around the table to those that had, and there was a collective intake of breath.

"What's our next step, Colonel? Gimme some idea where things go from here,"
said Great Father Daar, who was for once actually physically in the room.

"So far, I don't believe there have been any deaths. Yet. We've managed to catch
most of the infected at this point early in the onset of symptoms, and we've
been prioritizing them and their immediate social circles for evacuation to
Cimbrean. I think that's slowed things down...but this is going to change
things," Martin said, reflecting.

"This is going to make dealing with the biodrones a bigger problem," Regaari
said thoughtfully.

Great Father Daar just cocked an ear at him, inviting him to go on.

"The sickness will get into the population of biodrones, and there is little we
can do to prevent that," Regaari went on. "They will be an additional vector for
disease with any un-implanted they come into contact with who survive."

A wave of reactions went around the table. Martin himself was under no illusions
about the prospects of what would happen if...*when*...the wave of infection hit
the 'drones.

"They won't take precautions to avoid infection, that much is certainly true.
They're every bit as susceptible as our own people-more so, in fact, since
they'll try to keep functioning regardless of their condition," Martin said
thoughtfully. "I think we need a new protocol-any troops coming in contact
with the enemy from this point on need to go through a bio-field before they're
allowed back in camp. Actually, that's not a bad idea for the relief workers, as
well, of both races. The last thing anyone needs is re-infection."

There was murmured agreement around the table.

"How fast is it spreading, Colonel?" asked Great Father Daar.

"Our projections put the onset of the infectious stage at about 3 days after
infection, and a typical, fairly healthy subject, starts showing symptoms at
about seven to ten days," Martin replied. "Once actual symptoms start, the virus
tends to almost overwhelm the immune system's initial response. We've seen some
promising results from the secondary stage after that, though, and
I...*think*...that we're going to weather this with **most** healthy Gaoians
that get infected surviving."

"That's the trick, isn't it? *Healthy* Gaoians," said Dr. Marsh, from the CDC's
Xenobiology team. "There's nothing about a refugee camp that promotes healthy
living."

"On Earth, that's certainly true," returned Martin. "Fungi and killer bacteria
are in everything, and it's everywhere; Gao doesn't have the same kind of
extreme micro-life. It's a much less densely *living* world, more analogous to
Antarctica on Earth than anything else. Their new deathworld rating, in fact,
is largely determined from Gao being barren, cold, and inhospitable as cradle
worlds go. As long as nothing *else* comes along... although there is going to
be the problem of re-infection for Gaoians that weather it."

"How so?"

"For the most part, their immune systems don't do antibodies anywhere as well as
ours does. And of course, this is the *cold* we're dealing with."

"How are we coming on the evacuation portals to the new camp on Cimbrean?" asked
Great Father Daar. "I want that to remain top priority-'till our healthy
breeding population is safe, we're still facing extinction."

"We're almost finished with all five of the new jump portals and power supplies.
The cycle rate remains about ten minutes, so if we're staggering them every two
minutes, we'll have a pretty steady flow. At our max capacity, I think we can
manage nearly a half-million refugees per day. We'll have to send supplies
through as well, of course, but that's our only real bottleneck," said Captain
Scharff, the CO for the 37th Engineer Battalion.

"We're still going to get overwhelmed," Martin said. There was no escaping that
fact. "Even if we adopt a lot of the same measures they've done on Cimbrean, our
footprint here is just too small to make a measurable impact on a population
this size."

"First priority is gonna hafta be the Females and cubs still," said Great Father
Daar. "Nothin' there has changed. Next is gonna be the Army training camps.
After that...prolly the critical infrastructure teams-people on dams, power
plants, that sorta thing, and after that, general population."

"I've been in communication with the Israeli teams on the other side. We're
going to do a double bio-field screen, one going into the jump portal on this
side, and the other coming out of it on the other side. They're almost ready as
well," Captain Scharff said.

"Good. Soon's you can get started, start movin' 'em through, fast as you can,
safely," said Great Father Daar. "Everythin' else comes second to that."

"We should be ready within the next few hours, Great Father."

---

**Date Point: 14Y 4M 2W 1D AV**

**Tiritya Island Refugee Camp, Tiritya Island, Cimbrean**

***Rav Simel*** **Moshe Haran, IDF**

The IDF troops had been busy to nearly the point of breaking, building the
foundations, daisy-chaining power supplies and generators to banks of
capacitors, putting up the framework, painting the safety lines, and then double
checking to make sure they hadn't missed anything crucial. For a task like this,
the military *good enough to get the job done*...wasn't, and everybody knew it.

At last, final checks were done, the test jumps with inert objects had been
done, the receiving areas and bio-field gates to control foot traffic flow were
erected, charged, and turned on, and they were ready. The violet lights came up
indicating danger, the warbling hoot sounded, and...

With a *pop*, that eye-bending blackness formed and then dissipated all at once.
The IDF planners at their end had communicated the layout where refugees would
be coming through and their plans for handling it, so everyone had been told
before embarking to orderly and quickly file from the platform, form a neat
queue going through the bio-field, and then they would get direction on
arriving, on where to go next. Nearly five hundred Gaoians stood on the
platform, and as instructed, filed quickly off, double-file.

Two minutes later, the next one in the series of portals fired, and another five
hundred joined the first. Two minutes later, the next one, and then the next,
then the next. The first group had cleared the platform only a few minutes
before, when the next arrived.

It was well-planned out and well-executed. The Clan of Females already on
Cimbrean had contributed more than enough Mothers and older cubs to guide
everyone through, even the little ones who were a mixture of terror, excitement,
exhilaration, sugar, and staving off fatigue. They were guided out through the
grid painted on grass and shown where to pitch tents.

The press of refugees only intensified as it went on, and on, and on.

"On you come. Don't slow down, please. Don't stop," Moshe found himself
repeating. It seemed like almost every Mother had at least two or three little
ones in tow; some cubs were old enough to be hanging onto younger, and any time
a little one got separated, the cubs around them sorted it out almost before the
frazzled Mothers could even notice there was a problem.

All in all, the endless tide of exhausted refugees was well-behaved and orderly.
Moshe reflected to himself that they'd probably had lots of practice recently at
moving from one place to another. As the day went on, he made the rounds of his
people making sure water breaks were taken and food was eaten.

Finally, he had time for his own lunchtime break. A dozen or so Israeli
nationals had set up a makeshift food court a short distance away from the main
refugee station for rations; mostly for the use of the soldiers, as what they
were stocking was Human food that wouldn't necessarily agree with Gaoian
digestion. The entrancing scent of roasting gyro meat wafted past his nose, and
his feet found their own way.

The basic gyro-tzaziki sauce, some veggies, a few strips of deliciously
roasted meat and a flour flatbread wrapping it all together-was all they
actually were serving, apparently. He got up to the counter, standing in a
surprisingly short line, and was face-to-face with a harried looking young woman
in her late teens.

"So, basic gyro?" he asked lightly.

"Nah. We have basic gyros, too. What'll it be?" she shot back sarcastically,
already putting one together for him.

"Guess I'll go with the basic gyro, then, but could I get one with extra basic?"

"We don't do specialty orders, man. Sorry." She handed him his, wrapped in
coarse brown paper that crackled a little, with a little bit of a faint smile.
"Next!"

Chuckling, he wandered away from the cart, in the general direction of what
sounded like music of some kind. He tried not to wolf down the surprisingly good
food and found himself licking the sauce off his hand before it was even half
gone.

The music, he found, was being produced by an older IDF soldier on an instrument
he belatedly recognized as a [hurdy-gurdy](https://youtu.be/qobRgvntiA0) to an
utterly entranced group of other soldiers and an even larger (and growing) group
of cubs, with a few Females keeping a sharp eye for shenanigans. The cubs were
wide-eyed, and one or two of the older ones were busily talking in hushed voices
about whether that was a string instrument that *they* could try to play too.

The musician apparently heard some of this, because as the song ended, he opened
his eyes and looked at the cubs who suddenly looked both quite guilty about
*something* and excited to be spoken directly to.

"Would you youngsters like to try this?" he asked, holding it away from himself
a little.

The cubs looked at their accompanying Mothers, who hesitated and then nodded a
little. One took a step towards the man that had been playing for them, and
shyly raised her hand about halfway.

"Well, come on then," the man said, motioning her up. He sat behind her, showing
her where to put her fingers and how to turn the crank, and what keys to push.
She tried it, producing a horrific squawking noise that was reminiscent of geese
with flu having marital relations, and hid her face in embarrassment when the
others started chittering at her.

"Now now, none of you would do better. I certainly didn't, the first time I
tried this. Let's give her another try, and then maybe one of you can show us
how it's done, mmm?"

Moshe wandered away, munching on his gyro, listening to the sounds of Gaoian
cubs playing mere hours after they had come walking, stunned-looking and
helpless through the jump portals. Life, it seemed, was reasserting itself just
fine, with a little help.

*They're going to be okay* he thought, for the first time since his boots had
hit Cimbrean soil.

---

**Date Point: 14Y 4M 2W 2D AV**

**Capitol Building, Washington DC, United States**

**Esther Blum**

Getting the tax measure that her employers wanted passed through the House of
Representatives had been uncharacteristically easy. There had been the usual
unending policy meetings, the planning sessions, meetings about both the
planning meetings and planning sessions, and then meetings about *that*...but in
terms of pushing a major tax incentive for US heavy industry through the United
States Congress...it was like someone had pushed the Easy Button at some point.
The usual hand-wringing for the cameras had happened, been dealt with, and now
all that was left were the various floor speeches and debate in the Senate,
which was expected by both parties to pass handily once the requirements of
legislative kabuki had been satisfied.

It hadn't hurt that the President was solidly behind the measure, either. He had
made a number of personal phone calls to key opposition leaders, employing his
characteristic mix of bombast and charm to court the last stragglers into the
fold.

The real surprise had come from *all three* of the Representatives for West
Virginia before it had passed in the House. The three of them, despite all being
from the same party, could rarely agree on anything and were as contentious a
lot as one could find anywhere. When an amendment had been proposed by the three
of them in unison at the 11th hour to make the tax benefits retroactive to the
beginning of the Gaoian Crisis, it had sent a shock wave around the room.
Talking heads on the various TV channels had proclaimed that the bill had just
been killed, and the country had watched the drama unfold over the weekend.

Monday morning following, though, it had been adopted with some minor
modifications, and public debate on the bill overall had resumed as though
nothing had happened at all. The rest of the world shook its collective head at
the schizophrenia of American politics on display, and that was mostly that.

At the behest of her employers, Esther sat in the gallery watching the circus
below play out. Her assistant, an intern from Columbia was busily taking notes,
but it was probably not needed. This was all but a done deal at this point.

She was joined by the Representative who had been the original sponsor, the
Majority Whip from Georgia that had piloted that first meeting a month prior. He
slid into the seat next to her and leaned over.

"A month, start to finish. How about that?" he asked with a grin.

"For a tax measure like this, yeah. That's pretty fast," she said, smiling back.

"Something about never wasting a good crisis comes to mind," he said, leaning
back in his seat and stretching an arm out across the narrow chair on the other
side of him.

"I prefer to think of it as an opportunity seized, Congressman," she returned
coolly. "This will not only put extra jobs into my employer's sector, it's
long-term stability for exoplanetary construction."

He shook his head a little, mindful that there was *probably* a camera somewhere
pointed at them. "The Byron Group and others are already slobbering at the idea
of further tax incentives for stuff like colony building."

"That may not be such a bad thing, Congressman. At some point, humanity is going
to need to leave Sol, and the more incentives there are to support quick
development of that effort, the better."

"I guess we'll find out, Ms. Blum." They sat and watched. Below, the last of
the speeches had been concluded, and the vote was being called.

Another minute or two, and the Senate President's gavel came down. It was a done
deal, and the bill would be heading to the White House for a signature.

---

**Date Point: 14Y 4M 2W 3D AV**

**Tiritya Island Refugee Camp, Tiritya Island, Cimbrean**

**Sister Naydra**

It had been so long since Naydra had received an actual *message* from anyone
that she'd almost forgotten the *ding* sound of her communicator delivering a
priority message. She'd had nobody to receive priority messages from until she'd
been brought to Cimbrean, and in the camp, things just didn't really work that
way.

Her heart skipped a beat when she saw who it was from. She opened it, and
frowned; it was empty, except for a photo attachment. Confused, she clicked on
the attachment to open, and got the usual loading swirly thingy, which then
disappeared and gave her the dialogue box of a secured document.

> To open this document, answer the following security question: What did we
eat on our picnic?

She typed out *pot stickers* in the text window, and it went away, opening up
the picture, finally. Naydra chittered despite herself. The big fuzzy oaf.
He'd written her a letter by *hand*, taken a picture of it, and emailed that.
Then again, maybe it was more secure this way. She settled in to read.

> ~~Sister~~ Naydra,

> I hope my precautions in sending you this don't seem too much. I had Regaari
do some of his Whitecrest ~~shi~~ stuff to make sure you were the only one that
reads this. I couldn't type out an email. Stoneback paws ~~ain~~ aren't the best
for banging on a keyboard. This is more personal anyway, I never liked using
email.

> When I said before that I can't share this, and you don't know what you're
asking, I meant it. I've sired hundreds of cubs over the years as Stoneback's
Stud-Prime. Better you find a younger Male.

> It ~~ain't~~ isn't just that though. Being Great Father means I have to keep
the focus where it has to be, to save us all, and that don't make much room for
anyone, or anything, else in my life. It's the hardest thing I've ever done, but
Stonebacks don't quit.

> Daar

*Of course they don't, you furry lummox. You're about to find out we have that*
*in common.*

She bent to her communicator, and began to compose a response.

---

**Date Point: 14Y 4M 2W 5D AV**

**Wi Kao City, Gao**

**Biodrone**

The mission given the biodrone had been a little more complex than some. This
particular unit had been one of a few given specialized instructions; stash
themselves in hidden stasis containers for a preset time period, and when it
woke up, seek out and kill non-droned Gaoians.

When it awoke, the stasis pod it had occupied told the biodrone that it had been
in stasis for 10,512,052 seconds. Its default programming queried for an update
of instructions, but nothing was forthcoming, so it first sought out the others
and then, reunited, selected the first task.

If the drone had had the ability, it might have wondered why the Controllers had
no further instructions, but that ability was unnecessary, and so it did not.

On its first look above ground, it might have wondered what had *happened* to
the landscape, as much did not match with its preexisting internal maps.
Instead, it simply made a note of it, updated the current information, and moved
on.

The drones had kept to the shadows, and struck only at night. They lost only one
or two of their number for several days, ambushing small groups in simple, but
effective traps. If the drone could have felt anything, it might have felt
satisfaction at following its programming so well, but it did not have that
ability. Inside, the suppressed mind of the Gaoian it inhabited began to wither
away.

The last week had been...different. The biodrones had, in their decision-making
tree, arrived at the decision to clear several buildings of civilians. Inside of
each, it had found several hundred living Males who were lying down during the
day and did not fight back.

If the drone had been given the ability to recognize illness, it might have
balked at the task of going in, unprotected and exposed, but that ability was
unnecessary, and so it did not. The sick were efficiently and effectively
dispatched, each with a single shot to the head, and the task was complete.

The minimal self-care that the biodrone was permitted did involve rest, even if
it wasn't actual sleep. It had noted a decrease in optimal functioning, faster
than was normally expected without a Controller making adjustments. It ate when
it registered hunger, it eliminated waste when the urge presented itself, rested
when it registered body fatigue, but that was largely the limit.

This particular morning, it noted that its pulmonary functions were
significantly impacted by something; its nasal cavity was clogged with mucus,
and the body felt the urge to cough, repeatedly. Vision was impacted as well,
and it was registering joint pain from odd places.

The anomaly of data presented the biodrone with a problem its creators had not
really considered and probably would not have cared much if they had. The data
presented enough of a threat picture to the 'drone's programming that it
triggered an analysis reaction to figure out how it would impact functions.
This, in turn, led to the drone remaining unnaturally still while its limited
capacity to determine its situation wrestled with the problem. Remaining
utterly, totally still resulted in the problem getting worse, as the Terran
virus overwhelmed the body's immune system and it developed something that few
Gaoians ever had.

Pneumonia.

This resulted in a fresh set of data that also wasn't in the biodrone's
reference library. Trapped in a feedback loop of inadequate data or resources,
it eventually registered *pulmonary obstruction/failure imminent* and as its
last action attempted to record the death of the drone in systems that were no
longer connected or listening.

---

**Date Point: 14Y 4M 2W 5D AV**

**Tiritya Island Refugee Camp, Tiritya Island, Cimbrean**

**Mother Kyrie**

The soft glow of a holo-display lit the inside of the large tent currently being
used by the Mother-Supreme and her staff as an office and conference room.
Outside, the constant bang and whirring of machinery and construction heralded
the creation of hardsided shelter/warehouses that were intended for multipurpose
use. Inside, a clever usage of some forcefield buttressing attenuated the noise
to something far more manageable.

The Mother-Supreme, Mother Ginai, and the delegation of Mothers from the Meeting
of Mothers sat in a loose circle around the low display. Along with the Gaoians
were a delegation of Humans from a heavy construction and mining conglomerate
from Earth.

Mother Kyrie, having been an Ironclaw Associate specializing in architecture and
design, facilitated. It was her plan that was being displayed in a wireframe
diagram for everyone to look at.

"Lots of digging there," commented one of the Humans. It was true. Much of the
primary design was underground-huge amounts of living spaces in multiple
levels, carefully overlaid one atop another to provide mutual structural support
from all sides, above and below.

"The material mined will be used for building additional structures on the
surface." Mother Kyrie clicked a control, and dozens of wireframe buildings
materialized at the top of the diagram. "It will be reconstituted into stone
blocks, using the Dark Eye facility-you mine it out, we'll send a load over,
and then deliver it to the surface for building at the top as well."

"Slick," said another of the Humans.

"The test boreholes...here, here, and here," Mother Kyrie said, indicating
several spots on the wireframe, which obligingly zoomed in and highlighted the
places in question. "These will get repurposed as conduits for power and waste."
The display zoomed back out, and then back in on another spot.

"Since we're going to have to depend on desalination for the bulk of our water
anyway, it made sense to locate those closest to the waterline. This level here
is mostly industrial-waste treatment, water purification, desalination, that
sort of thing."

The Human engineer that hadn't spoken yet rose and inspected the display at
close range.

"Yeah, I don't think this'll be much of a problem. Boring machines have come a
long way just in the last coupla years. Ours all use fusion bits now, they
never need changing out and can chew through, probably a hundred meter length of
rock a day, easy. If we use the taillings like you're talking about for tunnel
supports, this'll go pretty fast."

Mother-Supreme Yulna spoke up, for the first time since they had all been
introduced and seated in what was, after all, her office.

"Mr. Cooper, how quickly can you get started?" she asked.

"As soon as there's a local jump portal with adequate power supply,
Mother-Supreme, we have all of the equipment ready to send through from the New
York and Tel Aviv portals. We'll stage it on the other side until we're ready to
bring it in, of course, otherwise, it'll just get in the way."

Yulna looked around the room at the other Mothers. "Understand, Mr. Cooper, what
we want here is for the Clan of Females to be doing the work. Inasmuch as we
can-your expertise, tools, and assistance are valued beyond our ability to
say, but this very much needs to be...our place...from the beginning and
throughout."

The engineer inclined his head. "Of course, Mother-Supreme. We'll do this
legally for our company as an equipment rental of sorts, with our engineers,
architects, and so on providing training and assistance."

Yulna, Ginai, and the other Mothers exchanged a look. It was a pivotal,
historical moment, and all of them knew it.

"Let's get started."

---

**Date Point: 14Y 4M 3W 1D AV**

**Secure Dataspace, Office of the Great Father, High Mountain Fortress, Northern Plains, Gao**

> Daar,

> I apologize for the delay in responding. It's been busy here, as I'm sure you
can imagine. I can only guess at the demands on your time, and hope you are
well.

> I'm pleased to tell you that the primary excavation for the Grand Commune has
started! Mother Kyrie's design met with the Mother-Supreme's approval, and with
the approval of the rest of the Mothers here. Everyone is very excited about it,
even if the only thing we've done so far is move some heavy equipment through
the construction site gate and bore some test holes. Thus far, the column of
basalt that we picnicked on seems to go down well below sea level, and we have
an estimate on where it's edges are-in short, it's very stable, very sturdy,
and very big. I've attached a quick video sim of what the finished product might
look like.

> We will very soon need authorization to begin using the Dark Eye nanofactory
for materials conversion. Initially, the plan is to use the tailings from
subterranean construction as above-ground building materials, and it won't take
much to convert rubble back into stone blocks. Along with that will be timber,
from Earth and some of the Cimbrean timber from further along the coast-you
may remember the really big trees we overflew?

> We'd like very much for you to come see the construction site when you have
time. I know you had hoped to assign some Ironclaw or Stoneback construction
supervisors to us, but I think what we have already will be sufficient. There's
a strong feeling among the Females here that we ought to build this
ourselves-perhaps a break with the past traditions of depending on the Male
clans for support, and perhaps it's simply that we know the effort can't be
spared. Whatever the reason, the interest from Females among the refugee
population has been startling, and it's encouraging.

> I spoke with a Human mining supervisor yesterday, who told me an interesting
story about her own country's history. I don't know Human history very well, of
course, but apparently there were two worldwide conflicts about one generation
apart, about a century of their years ago, in which the population was
mobilized-something like what you're doing now, I think. There was an
advertising campaign that had a female working in shipbuilding, I think, as a
central image. It inspired Human females that would never have done that work
before to do so, and she credited that image with being one of the reasons she
went into mining to begin with. It was a challenge.

> Anyway, as that campaign said, "We can do it." I believe that's true, and I
believe you do as well, for which I think all of us owe you an enormous thanks.

> For me, of course, that thanks is much more personal, and in a way, I suppose
I see your need for a Female in your life as being a darkness of your own that I
can rescue you from, and I can no more ignore your pain than you could have
ignored mine.

> Naydra

---

**Date Point: 14Y 4M 3W 2D AV**

**Folctha, Cimbrean**

**Nofl**

The room of human teens was boisterous. Nofl paused before going in; even to his
limited nose, the scent of human teenage boys fresh from the field was a little
overwhelming. He made an adjustment to the room's ventilation and went in. The
noise subsided, and he suddenly had the room's attention despite being a third
the size of everyone else.

"Good *morning*, darlings," he said, flapping his hands a little. "Oh my, this
is so exciting. Welcome, welcome."

Nofl settled onto a chair at the front of the room, which promptly rose on
kinetic levitators and put him at eye level with the roomful of kids, who were
suddenly *much* more interested in what he was about to say. Time to get down to
business, as that charming Human aphorism went. He tasked a part of his
consciousness to cataloguing the humans by apparent height, weight, general
health, gender, and extrapolating from there what roles they were likely to be
best suited for.

And maybe, just *maybe* if this went well...

"Well, now," Nofl said to the room with an attempt at a prim smile. "Everyone
ready to talk frisbee?"

"So, you're wanting to sponsor a team?" asked a fuzzy-cheeked kid with a head of
hair that looked like a miniature Vgork on his head.

"Oh my yes. Yes, indeed," Nofl replied. "And one with a bit more...shall we
say...refined taste than the other teams being formed?"

The kids all looked at each other. "Yeah, man, I dunno what you mean by that,"
said another boy. "This is, like, *frisbee*, not a trip to the opera or some
shit." He was cuffed upside the head by a much larger male adult Human standing
behind him. "Sorry."

Even with the occupants of the room being almost entirely juvenile Humans, it
was still a little unsettling to be sized up by them like a predator with a
snack.

"What I mean is, *my* team will have better equipment. Better sense of *style*,
certainly. I could never have a team wearing some of those atrocious jerseys I
saw the other day...goodness no."

A ripple of chuckling went around the room, although Nofl noted that it was
mostly the kids laughing along. Most of the adults were still inscrutably
serious-looking.

"Well." Nofl said into the silence that followed. "How about you discuss the
idea and all of that, while I talk with the adults in the other room. I'm afraid
I've never sponsored anything like a sports team before, so this will be a
learning experience for all of us." He giggled a little.

The discussion with the adults wasn't nearly as pleasant. He led the adult
Humans into the second small conference room that he'd rented for this occasion
and sat. The door had hardly closed before they rounded on him.

"What exactly are you playing at here?" demanded one. "Sponsoring a youth league
team, my arse, what are you really doing?"

Nofl winced a little. "I understand your skepticism. Your people and mine have
not always gotten along productively."

"Oh, *productively* is it? I have a cousin I found out was **vivisected** by one
of you. I got your productivity right..." the man trailed off at a restraining
touch from the female standing next to him. Nofl's quick glance at their hands
confirmed the presence of wedding rings.

"Dale, please," she said. "Mister...Nofl...I think what we're all concerned
about is that you want to experiment on our kids."

"Oh goodness me, no," Nofl said, flapping his hands again. "Perish the thought.
I will admit, my motives aren't completely altruistic. I do, in fact, have an
ulterior motive, but it has very little to do with children, yours or anyone
else's."

"And what," asked another adult male, "might that 'ulterior motive' be?"

"For reasons of my own, I appear to be a resident of Folctha for the long term.
Becoming a more contributing member of this community is, therefore, in my own
best interest."

The adults all looked at one another, and shared that eerie non-verbal
conversation that all humans seemed to be able to do, and which all of them
denied doing. Finally, the last man that had spoken spoke up.

"Look. I appreciate what you're trying to do here, Mister Nofl...but the fact
is, none of us trust you not to have another motive here, and these are *our
kids*."

Nofl sighed, having known that there was a high probability of this from the
beginning. "As you wish. I will explain to the children that my sponsorship has
not been approved. They need not know by whom, yes?"

The group filed back into the room where the teenagers had been spitballing
ideas back and forth with gusto. They took the news well, fortunately, or at
least they accepted his word on it. The room was empty within a few minutes, the
last children leaving having given Nofl a goodbye wave.

*Well. That didn't work.* He left the rented conference room, trusting the
automated systems to reset both rooms to their default configuration, and lost
in thought, wandered in the general direction of his own shop.

Abruptly, he stopped in his tracks, having had an idea hit him hard enough to
derail both of the two thought processes he was working through.

Nofl hurried back to his shop. He had begun over the last year or two to
correspond again with a few Directorate contacts with whom he'd worked while
developing the original Cruezzir, and *one* of those was in a unique position
indeed...

He hurriedly composed a message and sent it.

---

**Date Point: 14M 4M 3W 5D AV**

**Three Valleys FOB, Gao**

**Fang Leader Vuutyo, Grand Army of the Gao**

The Stoneback Claw and their Human companions that had been their instructors,
guides, and battle-brothers had moved on to their newer recruits, and for the
first time, his Fang had been approved to conduct independent operations. Vuutyo
had heard stories, and had done quite a few operations with their guidance, but
there was a tangible *difference* when he was the one that was responsible.

Operational tempo, if anything, had been stepped up significantly. Vuutyo's own
command structure, as thin as it was, had been supportive of him taking
initiative, and his Fang was eager and willing to go. "Ready to rock," as one of
their Human companions had put it with a congratulatory slap on the back. The
frustrating thing was, it seemed like no sooner would they clear one nest of
drones out than another would spring up.

When they weren't actively descending like the wrath of an angry deity on a
drone nest, they spent time doing what the Humans called "hearts and minds"
work, which both Champion Fiin and the Great Father *vigorously* endorsed. He
didn't see the connection at first...and then a corner was turned, and suddenly
they were getting intel about what was going on where they'd never gotten it
before. The connection between that and direction on where to go, what to hit,
what to leave alone, and *how* to hit things was so much easier to see, and he
often found himself wondering a little at how *deep* the expertise was that the
Humans were teaching them.

A priority call came through his communicator. He opened an eye, rolled out of
his nest-bed, and checked to see what it was.

````
ATTN: COMMANDER, THREE-VALLEY FANG
FROM: SENSOR_NET, THREE-VALLEY DISTRICT

A U T O M A T E D   M E S S A G E   F O L L O W S

SENSORS REPORT POSSIBLE BIODRONE INCURSION AT GREEN FALLS SETTLEMENT.
LOSS OF CONTACT WITH SETTLEMENT SECURITY PERSONNEL

RESPOND IN FORCE IMMEDIATELY
````

So. A small settlement a short distance away was experiencing an attack. Vuutyo
followed the example he'd been given and threw on his gear, dropped to fourpaw,
and ran as though his tail were on fire to his Talon-leaders' barracks. The
alert to the Weavers on loan from the Humans was already copied out, and as he
ran he fancied he could hear the *ziiiiip* of a recon drone headed in the proper
direction already.

Probably the most important thing he'd learned from his teachers was that modern
warfare was absolutely *nothing* like the stories and the Clan video-dramas. It
was all about *speed.* Stoneback had known that since forever, and the Humans
understood how to do it at scale in a way that was just...impossible to get his
head around. Vuutyo knew, by the time he had troops in the air, he'd have
overhead real-time images and some preliminary action analysis for preparation.
By the time they arrived, he knew he'd probably have nearly anything he could
ask for, including air support or artillery, just a short distance out and a
radio request away.

"UP! UP! GO, GO, GO!!" he roared as he burst through the door. He suppressed
a pant-grin of satisfaction as they erupted out of a sleeping pile into
wakefulness, and without missing a beat, began grabbing and donning gear as they
each cocked an ear to get what was going on.

"We have an attack *in progress*, [thirty klicks] out at the Green Falls
settlement. We were there four days ago, so we have recent recon and contact
with the locals. Drone images should be incoming in a few minutes-I want the
Claw up and ready to board the Weavers in ten." A succession of yips from around
the room, laid over the top of the rattling of equipment, acknowledged the
orders.

Vuutyo stood aside as his Talon-leaders boiled out of their barracks, moving
smartly on fourpaw to the squat buildings they'd taken over as sleeping
quarters. He watched as lights came on, shouting and the occasional yip guiding
his still-green but rapidly progressing troops into gear, and out to the flight
line. Comm checks were made, the various channels quickly run through, with an
accompanying slap to the helmet with each trooper.

He hustled to the awaiting Weavers and checked in with the pilots to make sure
everybody knew where they were headed. It'd never been wrong and there had never
been an error, but there was one lesson that the Humans had taught him, over and
over and over again. Complacency got people dead. Everything got checked, every
single time.

In what seemed like a paw of minutes, his people were assembled and boarded, and
they were airborne. Vuutyo busied himself getting the stream of data that was
coming in from their overhead surveillance, and discussing with his
Talon-leaders over comm links on how to properly approach the target.

Green Falls was a modest-sized settlement. One of the main reasons they'd been
there several times was that it was fairly important, being one of three main
water-routing stations from the rivers out to the farms and fields in Three
Valleys. Mostly, it wasn't drinking water-it was irrigation, which was in some
ways far more important. Few of the several hundred residents had been
biodroned-implants were fairly uncommon in communities this size, it seemed.

That, he realized, was odd, and it tickled at him. *Why* was it odd?

*...if there weren't that many drones out here to start off with, what is it*
*that we've been fighting for the last month? Where are they* ***coming***
*from?*

It hit him like a two-ton heavy thing. Someone, or more likely, some*thing* was
directing the drones. It couldn't simply be their residual, somewhat simplified
programming that was guiding them-there was agency behind an attack like this,
and for the other attacks that they'd been fending off lately. The doctrine thus
far was to simply descend on the drones and annihilate them, which his people
had gotten good at doing. That was Great Father Daar's direction, anyway, or at
least that was the overall principle. Vuutyo realized, though...*he* was in
command, *he* had the power to make a somewhat different call, and his troops
were good enough now to do what he realized needed done.

He switched over to the channel for his Fang leadership and clicked a couple of
times to get everyone's attention.

"Okay. You've seen the overheads. We're going to deploy in a pretty standard
defensive maneuver, put ourselves between the residents and the drones, and I
want to move on encircling the drones, but we're going to try something a little
different."

"I want to see if we can track these things back to wherever they're coming
from. For once, they're not attacking in the rain, but we've had enough moisture
in the air to make a damn good scent trail. If we can get them to break and
retreat, so much the better, but I want the trail preserved. If there's a larger
nest of these fucking things somewhere nearby, we are going to root it out and
**burn** it," he said. Yips acknowledging the order came through the comm
channel, and the Talon-leader with him nodded.

The Weavers began to descend. The ground looked in places like it was covered in
sparklers, with kinetic weapons throwing lethal chunks of metal this way and
that. The shielding of the Weavers began to take fire as they moved in,
shrugging off mere bullets easily with shielding that was meant to protect
against micrometeoroids. They came in hot and fast, and his troops moved out as
they touched down, like the disciplined veterans they were becoming.

The next few minutes were a blur; order, move, cover fire, recovery/reload, call
for team to advance on the objective, man down, move, covering fire...so it
went, as it always went, and before he knew it, it was suddenly...over, and he
was left panting for breath as the battle-fever left him.

Two drones, one lightly wounded, had apparently withdrawn and were heading away
from his troops and the settlement. Vuutyo gave the order to follow, mindful of
the fact that this could also be an ambush. In training, his Human advisers had
*constantly* used such retreating actions as cover for another attack, but the
drones didn't seem to think that way.

In fact, only Humans apparently thought of ways to actively use running away as
an attack, which was one reason among many that they *utterly* dominated
engagements like this. Gaoian tactics had always emphasized ambushes, of course;
even cubs loved to play Pounce, and it had a definite military use, but they'd
never put it together quite the way Human tactics instructors did, and the
combination was **lethal**.

He sent scouts ahead, maintaining contact with the two biodrones via his
overhead asset. It wouldn't do to not be careful about this, precisely because
of the Human tendency in training to use ambushes and guerilla warfare
generally. Even if drones didn't typically use those tactics...caution was still
a good idea.

The scent trail left by the biodrones, as it turned out, couldn't have been
easier to follow if it had been marked by billboards and set on fire. He
monitored their progress, keeping his scouts far enough back from the biodrones
that they would probably avoid detection. A third of the Claw saw to
coordinating first aid, while the other two followed the scouts at a good
distance.

Before they'd gotten too far from the main settlement, he got a message from one
of the Talon-leaders he'd left behind.

*"Fang Leader, I'm seeing symptoms here of that sickness they told us to watch*
*out for. The human one."*

"Give me a written summary, and contact the controllers at our base-see if we
can get one of those portable bio-fields brought out here, and get everybody put
through it," Vuutyo replied. "I'll send it up with our action report. Make 'em
comfortable-we should be back in a few hours."

*"Yes, sir."*

It took nearly a half hour of stalking behind the two drones to figure out where
they were going. At some point in the area's history, there had been some
exploratory mining a short distance from the settlement that had apparently
withered away, leaving only the detritus of aging buildings and some excavation.
He made multiple passes with the recon asset, getting stills from every angle
and a thorough look at the layout of the place. It was deceptively
well-fortified, tailings from the mine forming suspiciously well-placed piles
for cover in a firefight...and sure enough, there were several heat signatures
on overwatch.

Two, however, could play at Pounce.

Vuutyo considered options. His goal, as far as he'd thought it out, was to try
to capture this as intact as possible-if it was holding, or Daar-forbid,
*producing new* drones, then it would go a long ways towards explaining where
they were coming from and why they kept popping up. That, in turn, ruled out
certain options, such as nuking it from orbit, but there were still other ways
to be sure.

He moved his Talons to a good angle to enfilade both of the main watch points,
and then chittered to himself. There was an element to what he was about to do
that always appealed to the mildly-sadistic side of him, like the world's
greatest practical joke that was only funny if you weren't the one on the
receiving end.

The process of teaching and learning with Humans and the Stoneback experts had
been somewhat one-sided, but there had absolutely been an element of mutual
teaching and adaptation to it. Human weapons were created and intended for use
on other Humans, so their lethality tended to be overkill for what was needed
for use on other species, such as Gaoian bio-drones. The Humans-and the
Stonebacks, for that matter-had strongly insisted there was no such *thing* as
overkill but honestly it was hard to see the utility in a hand-held grenade
launcher that would pulp a room filled with biodrones to goo.

Well, okay. Actually the usefulness of that was perfectly obvious, but if what
one wanted wasn't goo, but something more recognizable...

This led to some peculiarities in their use, and quick development of weapons
that wouldn't have had much effect if any on Human targets, but were quite
useful otherwise. Vuutyo's favorite of these was what the Stoneback brothers
had dubbed the "popgun" mortar round-a repurposed firework display used in
Human celebrations for its fast burn, exceptionally loud bang and overpressure
wave, and brilliant white flash of light. It was a flashbang grenade,
essentially, only much bigger and more incapacitating, in an airburst.

His mortar teams had been introduced, or perhaps *re*-introduced, to the idea of
a "time on target" barrage of indirect fire, just a week or two before, and he
could almost physically feel their eagerness to try it out. A wave of pride hit
him when he realized they were already set up and prepped for the order before
he'd even given it, and he realized something.

The processes and way of thinking that the Humans and Stoneback had been
teaching the Grand Army weren't new at all. What they had done was to take the
instinctive and easy, natural flow of cooperative work that Clanless understood
in their own right, and they applied military discipline, processes, and
equipment to that already-existing template. The synergy of it was breathtaking.

And in a moment, that was going to be literal. He quit ruminating, gave the
order, and watched, trusting his smart eye and ear protection to keep him from
being deafened and blinded.

From above, the video feed caught the head-turn of the sentries as they heard
the mortar tubes firing with their characteristic *foomp*. They had just enough
opportunity to know that *something* was happening, when four airburst popgun
rounds went off overhead all at once in a flash that dazzled the cameras, lit up
the entire mine site in a lightning-quick flash of blinding light, and carried
with them an overpressure wave that he could feel in his chest.

He didn't even have to give the assault order. His Talon-leaders motioned their
men forward, and in seconds the sentries were incapacitated, the two drones
they'd followed here stuck with sleep-patches and unconscious, and the entire
external site secured.

Vuutyo's radio crackled to life again.

*"Fang Leader, Third Talon. FOB says they don't have a bio-field to send, the*
*two the base has are already being used and won't be free for a couple of days.*
*Said they're using them on a commune recovery, cubs and Females."*

Vuutyo sighed. This sickness was really getting out of control. "Do what you can
to make them comfortable-Human medic said stay warm, eat, and plenty of
fluids, and just ride it out."

*"Acknowledged, Fang Leader. Third Talon out."*

He turned to Mura, his First Talon leader. "I want a couple of Claws to each
structure. Get a sweep done, let's see what they've been up to, and watch for
booby traps." He keyed his radio. "Second Talon will stay as reserve, in case we
run into anything inside and below, or get stragglers."

First Talon broke out into multiple sub-Claws of two or three soldiers, and the
structures were silently, quickly, and efficiently cleared. The only real coming
or going scent trail was to the main mineshaft, and he suspected they'd find
whatever it was they'd come for in there. The lack of booby traps elsewhere made
his hackles go up. Something about it wasn't right. Something about it was far
too easy. That was never good, whether one was clearing a building or laying
plumbing for a building.

Suspicious, he held First Talon outside while a little recon was done.

Gaoian toys in some ways far surpassed the Human ones. Human tools were all
about simplicity, often applying effective novel applications to things and
doing *more* with *less*. Or at least that was the idea. They really had to,
though; Human tech despite their expertise, was almost laughably primitive when
compared to the Gao's. One such was a riff on their love of remote imagery, and
he deployed a finger-sized drone with a toss through the door. It caught air
currents and wafted inside, no heavier than a large bug.

Heat sensors immediately caught the telltale warmth of living bodies, on the
first level down. Below that, it didn't see much using thermal, but there was
definitely something there to check out. He waved his assault teams in, noses
and ears alert for trouble from every corner, watching their progress through
the drone feed.

The assault was almost *perfectly* done, troops moving in sync without words and
coordinating with gestures. It might not have been as fast and tight as
something a more experienced team would have done, but he couldn't see any gross
oversights. Rooms were cleared, floor swept, and the first floor was declared
secure. They moved down.

At the top of the staircase, they halted. Vuutyo listened to the low chatter
between the Talon Leader and two of the Claw Leaders inside.

"[Fuck], what a stink."

"Smells like a lot of dead. Lot of decomp in the air."

"Yeah. Everyone, button up and go to your bio-filters. Masks on." There was a
pause while those preparing to assault followed the order and reported ready
with a quick radio-click.

"Ok. We're going in quiet. Watch for traps, anything out of the ordinary, ready,
3...2...1..." In the team went, practically right on top of one another and
fanning out at the stairs to move down what proved to be a fairly wide and open
corridor with rooms on either side. The life signs had some from this floor, and
they were quickly located as unresponsive drones each seated on the floor
staring blankly at the walls, with greenish snot bubbling out of most of their
noses.

"The [fuck]?" One of Vuutyo's Claw Leaders was fond of the versatile Human word.
He decided to weigh in.

"First Talon, capture one or two of them, but put the rest down. If they're not
moving, I want to know why, but we don't need all of them for that." He watched
as those massively useful Human flex-cuffs were produced and used, and knives
attended to the rest. A gesture from one of the Claw Leaders caught his
attention, and he moved the drone to see what it was.

Towards the back of the room, there were perhaps another *dozen* dead, by all
appearances having died right where they sat, like so many gargoyle statues. He
activated the infrared light on the drone for better illumination.

"This coulda been way worse, sir," said one of the soldiers to the drone. "I
think these all died right here of the sickness. Explains maybe why we're
getting them in small groups."

The rest of the Talon had continued clearing the floor, and was preparing to
move onwards. In nearly every room it was the same-a few still-living drones
seated on the floor and unresponsive, with a number more behind them. Vuutyo
started prepping the report he was going to have to flash upwards to Central
Command; he had a sneaking suspicion that more senior people were definitely
going to want to look at whatever it was he'd found here. This wasn't a typical
nest of a few drones sheltering from weather and randomly striking out.

"Move in," he said over the radio, following down the lead with his drone.
Watching both the front via video feed and the back via his own eyes was a
little weird, but he was rapidly getting used to it.

Silently, they poured down the stairs to find one large door standing slightly
open. Lights were on down at this level, a knifelike edge of illumination
spearing through the door and up the adjacent wall.

*"Someone in there,"* breathed the lead soldier, crouching at the edge and
peeking inside around the corner, gun at the ready. Inside, there was the sound
of something moving around, over the soft whir of fans and the whine of
electronics. The soldiers on the stairs were poised.

"Try for nonlethal if you can," Vuutyo said. Biodrones operating independently,
when there were others nearby, was highly unlikely. A *click click* on the radio
of acknowledgement, and he watched as they readied themselves, flashbangs and
sleep patches at the ready. At some signal his camera didn't catch, they
exploded through the door.

---

**Inside**

**++0887++**

0887's task as a minor player in the Cleanse and Reset for this Control Species
had been almost an afterthought. He had been recruited just after getting
assigned his Hierarchy number, and had been assigned the responsibility for
coordinating the biodrones in this area to wreck the agriculture and farming
industries.

For the first few days, things had gone okay; he'd been left with a goodly sized
stash of resources to draw upon for it by preparatory work done by previous
Agents over hundreds of years as a contingency measure. The disconnection from
his home network by whatever it was the Control Species had done had come as a
rude shock, and then the evidence of the space battle overhead, even more so.

He had dispatched drones to take out the survivors of the wrecked starship, with
only moderate success. He hadn't quite reckoned with having Humans to deal with,
and once they'd dug in, he had worked to discredit them with the population by
using Human weaponry to pick off the un-Implanted whenever possible.

The real treasure was the small nanofactory he'd gotten connected and running.
With that, he'd been able to construct a robotic implantation suite, and had
been able to, carefully, expand his ranks of minions even after getting cut off
from the Igraen network.

Then, somehow, impossibly, the Humans had done whatever it was they had done and
had driven off the Hunters, put up a system defense shield, and had started to
push back against him. One after another, his carefully-created drone nests had
been found and put to the torch. He had more drones, of course...lots more, in
stasis below in fact, but he'd realized something just a few days before when
one of his drones had reported pulmonary problems.

There were other ways to fight than going out and sniping off one or two
civilians at a time.

Some work with the nanofactory had produced a passably good genetic lab; 0887
had studied genetic modification, and although he'd never gotten to work with a
virus as potent and resilient as something from Earth before, he had plenty of
material to work with now, and had had no trouble isolating the virus. He'd
spent the last week or so trying to enhance its effects on Gaoians, and had had
several test batches running upstairs.

Unfortunately, with the disconnection from the Igraen data network, he was also
not able to monitor the goings-on upstairs, and so the sudden apocalyptic flash
of light and noise actually knocked him from his feet and stunned him
completely. The following surge through the door of armed and armored Gaoian
soldiers didn't even have time to register. He felt a prickling sensation at the
back of his neck, and everything went black.

---

**Upstairs**

**Fang Leader Vuutyo**

Vuutyo had never sent a Flash-alert to the Great Father's office directly
before. He had hastily been writing and re-writing the brief message, getting
*almost* ready to hit **send** and then rethinking it.

Was he *really* sure he wanted to do this? It was necessary, but...

Yes.

Closing his eyes, he accepted the inevitable and sent it.

````
FM THREE_VALLEY COMMAND/vuutyo.FL@army.gao.smil//
TO OFC THE GREAT FATHER/daar@clans.gao.sgov//
INFO QUARTERBACK/quarterback@sharman.mod.uk.smil//

S E C R E T

BT

SUBJ: GREEN FALLS INCURSION / SANDSTORM / BIG HOTEL//

INCURSION ALERT RECEIVED BY LOCAL 3VALLEY GARRISON, RESPONDED VIA AIR,
INCURSION NEUTRALIZED W/2 CASUALTIES, 12 ENEMY KIA, 9 ENEMY CAPTURED.

REASON TO BELIEVE ONE (1) DETAINEE IS HOSTING BIG HOTEL AGENT,
DETAINEE UNDER GUARD AND SEDATED.

SANDSTORM FACILITY DISCOVERED, ASSISTANCE NEEDED TO ASSURE
NEUTRALIZATION AS IT APPEARS TO ALREADY BE IN PRODUCTION. FACILITY
EQUIPPED WITH CLASS 6 NANOFACTORY.

SEVERAL HUNDRED DRONES ALSO RECOVERED, CURRENTLY IN STASIS.

PLEASE ADVISE.
````

---

**Date Point: 14Y 4M 3W 5D AV**

**Office of the Great Father, High Mountain, Gao**

**Father Regaari**

Regaari vetted literally hundreds of messages a day from the field for the Great
Father, in the normal course of his duties, deciding which Daar needed to see,
which he could answer on Daar's behalf, and which needed to go elsewhere. Much,
if not most, of the traffic ended up in summary reports that the Great Father
got with his morning meal.

An alert from near AEC's FOB in the Three Valleys region saying that they had
captured an active enemy bioweapon lab and a possible captured Hierarchy demon
under sedation was the sort of thing that Daar didn't grumble about a bit.
Regaari tried extra to find those nuggets in the message traffic. It was
fortunate that it was coming in at the beginning of the day.

Daar, he knew, would be up; the Great Father was an early riser, despite often
going to bed after Regaari himself. He scratched perfunctorily at the door and
was opening it even before the rumbled, "Enter, Regaari," came rolling through
the door.

"Word from Three Valley Fang, Cousin. They had some action this morning, I
gather." He handed his data tablet over, which was promptly and utterly
swallowed up by a massive paw.

"Huh. Interestin'. Wonder how he captured nine, when my standing orders have
been to put drones down immediately."

"Creative thinking, no doubt. And perhaps he smelled something on the field that
caught his attention. We'll have to ask."

Daar scratched himself unselfconsciously. "Mebbe. Can't have people gettin' too
creative with those standing orders, we ain't got the time for it. Awright.
Gimme a coupla minutes to get up, eat something, an' we'll head out there."

"I'll let the Fang Leader know we're coming, and get the human CDC people
waiting with a claw from First Fang."

"Y'know, I seem to 'member a report about two, three days ago in that summary
that drone attacks had decreased overall. They shut down when they're gettin'
sick," Daar mused.

"This group appeared to be behaving differently. Perhaps that's what occasioned
Vuutyo's initiative."

Daar grunted. "Mmm. Maybe. Good thinkin' if so. We'll have to see."

---

**Date Point: 14Y 4M 3W 5D AV**

**Hierarchy operational base, Three Valleys Province, Gao**

**Fang Leader Vuutyo**

The first actions Vuutyo had taken after sending his message was to order Fourth
Talon, back at the FOB, to relieve Third, and for Third to join them in securing
the site. Medical stasis units had been kludged together out of some inactive
ones that had been inside, and they'd put all nine of their captives into stasis
as an added precaution.

Vuutyo had been one of the first Clanless recruited, when Great Father Daar had
come to the Three Valleys Province months before. He'd met the Great Father, and
only the Great Father's overwhelming friendliness and honesty had kept Vuutyo
from being terrified of him. The Humans that he'd trained with thought highly of
the Great Father, and more than one of them had mentioned that anyone who could
roll with the HEAT team was, "a fuckin' badass."

The sound of the incoming Weaver shuttle overhead got everyone's attention, and
Vuutyo had to reassert what they were supposed to be working on. He wasn't
completely sure whether or not Great Father Daar would personally come out to
inspect the site, but he was reasonably certain of it, simply based on his
recollection and experience with him. The Weaver landed, the side doors slid
open, and....yes. That colossal shambling wall of muscle could **only** be Him.

He wasn't alone of course; he was escorted by a Claw from Stoneback's First
Fang, his Whitecrest attache, Father Regaari, and a group of civilian Humans
carrying all manner of gear. Vuutyo resisted the urge to gulp, and stood at
attention.

"Fill me in, Fang Leader. What'd you find out here?" Great Father Daar asked, in
a low and dangerous rumble that was *just* short of a growl. Vuutyo suddenly
realized something else. The enormous proto-Stoneback had positioned himself
*downwind* and was actively sniffing. He screwed up his nerve.

"We responded to an automated report from a sensor cluster we put out here about
a week ago, Great Father. I considered it likely that there would be a further
incursion here, based on its remote location and the periodic attacks we had had
approximately a month ago. Once on scene, we identified the main body of
attackers at the southwest ridgeline. I placed my men between the attackers and
the civilians at the settlement and began an envelopment maneuver."

"So far so good," growled Great Father Daar.

"Two of the drones attacking retreated when the rest were killed. Seeing
excellent scent-trail opportunity, I elected to follow them back to their point
of origin to see if there were additional drones to be dealt with. I ordered
nonlethal methods be used to incapacitate the two drones that had fled the
firefight, as well as the sentries, because...I can't explain better than this,
Great Father, but the pattern of behavior of these drones was just *different*,
and rather than steps that would permanently damage them, if they needed to be
treated as specimens, I wanted to ensure that was a possibility."

"Interestin' line of thought, Fang Leader. You're aware of my standin' orders on
drones?" the Great Father asked in a rumble that carried.

"Yes, Great Father. To continue...?" The only response was an assenting grunt.

"We cleared the buildings using a standard envelopment and breach, saving the
main building at the center there for last. Inside, on the first subterranean
floor, we found several rooms full of inactive drones. I'll...have to show you
where and how we found them. I saved two of the living ones, as they show
visible signs of illness. The rest appear to have expired where they sat. Once
that floor was secure, we continued downward."

"Go on."

"On the second floor, we found one male Gaoian biodrone and a room full of
genetic resequencing equipment with a civilian-model nanofactory. He was
incapacitated at my order, as I believe there is a high probability he is
hosting a Hierarchy agent. We secured the second floor as well, and below that
in several of the old mine tunnels, we found several hundred biodrones in
stasis."

"Mmm. Fang Leader, I suppose I don't need to remind you how serious I take my
standin' orders, do I?"

"No sir. I take full responsibility for the order to incapacitate rather than
kill outright. My men followed my orders."

The Great Father leaned forward and inhaled deeply, taking a deep sniff of
Vuutyo. "You do, don't you?" he asked, half to himself. He turned and gave
Father Regaari, who was standing next to him looking inscrutable, a long look.

There was a deep *whuffing* sound, and abruptly Vuutyo realized Great Father
Daar was....**laughing**....chittering fit to burst in that enormous bass voice.
It continued to escalate, and others began to chitter along with him, mostly out
of a mix of relief and sympathy. Daar laughed until he had tears coming out of
his eyes, with his ears laid back and bent over with his paws on his knees,
hardly able to get a word out.

"Damn....damn me, Vuutyo, yer a **ballsy** motherfucker. I ain't **never** had
someone under my command outright contradict one o' my standin' orders, give me
such a reasonable description of why they done it, and then have the stones to
tell me to my face. Jus' about anybody else woulda taken that order literal, and
all's we'd have is dead drones here and one maybe dead-Hierarchy-body," he
chittered. His laughing petered out to a low, rumbling, continuous chuckle.

"This...this's really good work. Three Valleys Fang has done some *excellent*
work this morning. I brought in some human infectious-disease experts here, and
Imma let them get down into the guts of this place and tell us what we're
dealin' with."

Vuutyo fought the urge...hard...to lay his ears back in relief. Around him, he
could see that the Great Father's comments were having an effect; his people
stood just a little straighter, and had just a little more pride in their
bearing.

"Honestly, Great Father, I wasn't certain of it at all at the time...it just
seemed like the right move to make. Something about things seemed...off."

Great Father Daar gave him a hearty back-slap that nearly knocked him over.
"Nah. You saw the situation fer what it was, and your people carried out those
orders great-standin' orders like that have to be pretty clear an' simple to
get followed, but there's always gonna be exceptions. Like this."

"Yes, sir."

He gave Vuutyo a sly look. "If it wouldn't set a *totally* wrong precedent, I'd
give you a scar or two ta' be proud of, but you'll have to settle fer a
commendation, I think. Havin' a professional standin' army is gonna have to
change summa our customs."

"It appears that Fang Leader Vuutyo is correct, Great Father. The Human team
inside says that the lab clearly was attempting to modify the Human rhinovirus,"
Father Regaari said. The Great Father duck-nodded.

"They were trying to capitalize on it, make it into somethin' more lethal. Fyu's
nutsack, I hate these **motherfuckers**," Daar snarled, mirth gone abruptly.
"Damn, this was close. You done good, Fang Leader. You done **real** good work
here."

---

**Date Point: 14Y 5M AV**

**Tiritya Island Refugee Camp, Tiritya Island, Cimbrean**

**Sister Naydra**

> Naydra,

> Had a near miss a couple of days ago. Three Valleys Fang found a lab with a H
agent in it that was weaponizing this Human cold virus. Mighta gotten away with
it too, if it weren't for that damn young cub runnin' the Fang. He disobeyed
almost all of my standing orders about drones, captured a bunch of em, and in
the process, might have saved all of us. ~~Ain~~ Isn't that something?

> Father Gyotin and I had a chat yesterday. He had a suggestion for me that I'm
gonna try. Didn't sound too hard. If it works out I'll send you a picture!

> I'm so proud of the Clan of Females for stepping up and carving a place for
yoursel~~f~~ves out of this mess we're in. You probably already know this, but
when I got your letter, I made real sure that Dark Eye knows anything from the
Grand Commune that comes thru has top priority.

> We're moving Mothers and cubs through the portals as fast as we can. Gao is
gonna seem real ~~fuc~~ strange without Females on our home world, but it's the
best thing for everyone. You were all right about that.

> I'm afraid if I visit the Grand Commune, I'd take away from the image of the
Females doing this. All of Gao is watching, and while I want to see it and the
progress you've all made very much, I think it's probably best if I not come
unless I'm invited by the Mother-Supreme and it's a state visit (which I hate).
I have a long, real dark shadow these days, and I don't want you getting caught
in it.

---

**Date Point: 14Y 5M 6D AV**

***Racing Thunder,*** **Outer-system picket, patrolling in vicinity of Gao**

**Ship-Father Yefrig**

Every time the *Racing Thunder* passed close enough to Gao to again pick up the
tumbling hulks of Hunter derelicts on sensors, Yefrig again found his thoughts
returning to the final day of the conflict, when the Humans had deployed the
system shield for good. How *any* species that had only been spacefaring as long
as Humans had could have come up with...whatever it had been that they'd used to
disperse the Hunter fleet, he had no idea. By this point, he'd resigned himself
to the fact that he would never know.

The Human reactions were interesting to read as well. Yefrig would have bet his
chances of ever mating again that almost none of the Humans he'd had hushed
conversations with had known, prior to the weapon being deployed, that it
existed at all, and not a one would say anything even if they had. AEC's Fleet
Intelligence people had descended on every ship that had been in sensor range of
the conflict, and had forcibly stripped every sensor record from at least ten
minutes before the event to about ten minutes afterwards, erasing as they went.
*Nothing* flying was spared; that command had come from above the highest levels
of the theatre commander, from what he'd gathered.

Rumor had it not even Great Father Daar knew what the Humans had done.

At any rate, the aftereffects of the weapon's use had been ...interesting.
*Racing Thunder*, as the primary superluminal patrol vessel outside the system
shield, passed through the debris field's sensor vicinity often enough that
their records were "collected" every time they came in. As a result, to prevent
too much ransacking of their databanks, Yefrig tended to steer his ship clear of
that area. It was, as the Human saying went, a *pain in the ass*.

At the moment, they were in deep interstellar space, running quiet and simply
trawling for contacts. Merchant traffic was nonexistent, which made things
simpler-*everything* that came up on sensors was possibly an enemy of some
kind, and warranted checking out. Yefrig sat in his command chair, trying to set
a good example and remain alert, but by the First Mother's *teats*, this job got
boring when things were this quiet.

A sudden stir from Brother Duri at the sensor console got his attention.
"Report, Brother."

"Father, I have superluminal traces from several ships, bound directly for Gao.
It appears to be two, perhaps three heavy escorts, and one...*very* large vessel
they appear to be escorting." He raised his head from the sensors and looked at
Yefrig. "They're Corti vessels, Father."

Yefrig growled softly. "Usual intercept protocol; peaceful message, but order
them to halt. Dispatch message buoy back to Gao."

Yips of acknowledgement accompanied his orders, and the *Racing Thunder*
accelerated, no longer interested in hiding. Yefrig watched on his display. As
ordered, the approaching ships halted, and in a moment, they had IFF readings.

"Father, the escorts are the *Exquisite Proof* and the *Rational Binomial*...and
they are escorting the *Common Denominator*, which registers as a...a biological
research vessel, Father. One of their big terraforming ones."

Yefrig's ears were erect in undisguised surprise. Corti vessels like that were
rare, and with the system shield up, there could only be one reason that they
would be headed in Gao's direction. Almost as if prompted, his comms officer
spoke. "We're being hailed by the *Common Denominator*, Father."

Corti in general always looked to Yefrig's eyes vaguely like they were somewhat
constipated, and the face greeting him was no exception. He adjusted his chair
so that he was a little more squarely in the view of the camera.

"Good morning, *Common Denominator*. I am Ship-Father Yefrig of the *Racing
Thunder*. What is your business in this area?"

"Greetings, *Racing Thunder*. I am Ship-Master Kvan. We have come to assist with
the Gaoian relief effort at the suggestion of the Directorate's Varos College.
The escorts are simply a precaution."

"You won't be permitted inside the system shield, Ship-Master. The Human command
is busily sanitizing this area and are still on a threat-response footing. You
are also about to enter the wormhole interdiction zone; I mention this as a
caution, because you will not be cleared to jump out if the Hunters make a sweep
through this area."

The Corti blinked slowly. "The caution is appreciated, Ship-Father. We have no
intention of requesting entry past the shield."

"There is a substantial debris field ahead of you from the Hunter attack, just
be aware. The interdiction field may not cloud your sensors, but it's best to
know it's there nonetheless. I will alert the system pickets of your approach
and let the Human command know you're coming. You're cleared to approach the
Gaoian system."

"Your diligence is commendable, Ship-Father. *Common Denominator* out." The
screen darkened, and the Corti's face faded out.

"Unexpected, but not unwelcome. Helm, get us within superluminal comm distance
of the system. I think I should have a word with General Stewart and Great
Father Daar."

---

**Date Point: 14Y 5M 6D AV**

**Office of the Great Father, High Mountain Fortress, Gao**

**Father Regaari**

Humans had a term for what his job consisted of that sounded way cooler than the
job actually was, Regaari reflected. Being Batman was something you were
supposed to feel awesome about. Or..*a* batman, anyway.

Regaari, as Great Father Daar's personal assistant/attache/gofer was in a unique
position to get nearly all of the communication traffic intended for and from
the Great Father routed through his desk, and as such it was a Whitecrest coup,
of sorts, that was unparalleled in the history of the Gao. Regaari saw
*everything*...which of course, meant that he was rarely at liberty to pay
attention for very long to much of anything.

His own priority message list had gotten quite a bit longer than it had been
since Operation NOVA HOUND, and it included a lot more humans on it than before. Now,
he had an entire list of people who might be sending messages to the Great
Father to pay attention to as well, and most of those were what he paid
attention to.

A priority message from Ship-Father Yefrig on the *Racing Thunder*, copied to
Brigadier-General Stewart and others, definitely fit into the category of
*things that should interrupt the Great Father's deliberations*, and so, with
little hesitation, he arose from his desk in the outer chamber of Daar's office
and scratched at the plate. Daar had left him a very explicit and pointed
general directive about what not to interrupt him for earlier.

"...Enter." It came with a sigh.

"I apologize...but this could not wait," Regaari said. "Some *good* news,
apparently for a change, and something I thought you'd want to see right aw..."
He trailed off, then with head cocked, couldn't resist. "What are you doing?"

"Gyotin suggested I try a human art form. It's called *ikebana*, and it's hard
as fuck." Daar stood, bracing his massive knuckles in his back and stretching.

"It looks like...flower arrangement." Regaari said, nonplussed. It did-there
was a vase, water, and several types of Gaoian flowers sitting in an evident
state of disarray between the table and vase.

"It is. And it isn't." Daar rumbled. "Gyotin said it'd teach me inner peace, but
I kinda think he's fuckin' with me. It's a human thing. Like *everything* about
human things, it's one thing, and it ain't actually that, it's somethin' else."

He looked up at Regaari. "You came in here for somethin'. What's going on?"

"Yes. You have a message from Yefrig on the *Racing Thunder*. There is an
enormous Corti bio-research vessel coming into the system with a couple of heavy
escorts. With the shield up and the Human fleet out there, there's only one
thing a ship like that can be here for."

Daar nodded. "Aiding the relief effort...and makin' the Corti more money while
they're at it."

They stood, thinking for a moment. Regaari had long since learned that simply
letting the Great Father *think* about a problem for a minute or two usually had
better results.

"Fuck. I ain't got the mental energy to do what it's gonna take to keep from
getting raped by those little grey pricks," Daar said finally. "I ain't got the
time, neither."

"Send Champion Yeego," Regaari suggested.

Daar duck-nodded wearily. "That was gonna be my go-to. What's 'yer read on 'em?"

"On the Corti? I have no idea, beyond the usual follow-the-money advice."

"I meant Goldpaw."

"You wonder about his loyalty."

"Eh, it's just...I ain't ever smelled a more oily kinda male in my whole life,
Cousin."

Regaari chittered. "I think I know what you mean. Maybe it's not his loyalty, so
much as just...his priorities?"

"Goldpaws and Corti have some things in common. They like money a lil' too
much," Daar said darkly. "An'....he *smiles*. Like a human does, only not in a
funny way."

"You smile too."

"No, I *grin* an' you know Keeda-damn well that ain't the same thing."

"Daar, you have the biggest fangs I've ever seen. Calling that a *grin* is a bit
much."

"Yeego winds *gold* in his *whiskers!"* His contempt could not be contained.

"Then perhaps a firm emphasis on what his role needs to be. Have a private chat
with him, Emphasize the importance of the task," Regaari suggested. "I think you
might be surprised by what he'll accomplish."

"...Yer prob'ly right, as *usual."* Daar took the opportunity to flop to the
ground with a calamitous thud and scratch his back on the rough wooden floor.

"I'll request Champion Yeego attend you. Here at High Mountain, I think? After
all, he may weave gold into his whiskers but you have a timber-beam, unfinished
wooden floor over two thousand years old, from when Gao was still rich with
forests. He'll appreciate that better than anyone."

Daar grunted in amusement. "I can't scratch my back on gold whiskers. Ain't
practical!"

"Yes. I'll leave you to your eminently practical floral arrangement," Regaari
said with a teasing ear waggle. He closed the door behind him before Daar got
any pouncy ideas.

He did, however, hear Great Father Daar mutter something very
un-Great-Father-like as he went.

---

**Date Point: 14Y 5M 1W AV**

**Office of the Great Father, High Mountain, Gao**

**Champion Yeego, Goldpaw**

Yeego had never been invited to the Great Father's private chambers. Most of the
Champions hadn't, and to have been so was considered somewhat of a dubious
honor; Daar preferred to do his business on the move. In his suite where he
slept, ate, consummated his daily mating contracts...if the Great Father felt
the need to interrupt any of *that* to speak to a Champion, there could hardly
be anything good about it.

There was nothing to be done. Yeego glanced in the mirror one last time and made
sure he was impeccably groomed. It wouldn't do to insult the Great Father with
anything less than perfection, and while it was well known that Daar had rather
more...primal...tastes, it was also a well-known fact that he was vastly more
perceptive and intelligent than he generally let on.

And that made him exceedingly dangerous.

He reached the top of the interminable staircase, finding the outer office
manned by Father Regaari, with a pair of Stonebacks guarding the entrance like a
pair of...something hulking, furry, and savage. The mental comparison he'd been
about to make shorted itself out in what was probably primal self-preservation.

"Champion Yeego, thank you for coming," Father Regaari said. "It will be just a
moment, the Great Father is attending to something."

"Send 'im in, Cousin." The Great Father's powerful, booming voice could be heard
through the stonework and yet it was obvious he hadn't raised his voice.

The Whitecrest stood, and gestured towards a heavily scarred...*wooden* door
bound with iron that looked like it had been there since Fyu's time. Which, come
to think of it...it probably had. The door creaked open on heavy oiled hinges,
and he was ushered inside. Then it closed, leaving him alone with Great Father
Daar. Regaari, he realized after a moment, hadn't come in with him.

Daar leaned against a heavy table, his back to the door and fiddling with
something. "Be with you in a moment, Champion." The delicate gossamer-like scent
of *ekasi* blossoms wound its way through the much heavier scent of the Great
Father's overwhelmingly potent musk. It was an odd contrast, really.

Yeego stood, unsure quite what to do with himself. Habits learned over a
lifetime of evaluating situations asserted themselves, and he took inventory of
what and where he was. The room had an almost primal, aggressive
simplicity-all hard lines, deep stone windows, furniture heavy enough to
probably even support a Guvnurag...and an actual *unfinished wooden floor.* The
casual ostentatiousness of it nearly took Yeego's breath away, and he found
himself once again reproaching himself for misjudging the Great Father.

Clearly, this was not an accident at all. Which meant...what?

Daar stood abruptly, turned, and leaned against the table corner. "There. Think
I got that just right finally. Took forever, I'm so used to doin' heavy things
with my hands and claws, bein' all delicate takes me some doin'."

"...My Father?"

Daar turned a bit further at his waist and flashed his *gigantic* bestial paws,
then extended the biggest claws Yeego had ever seen by a *long shot.* Daar
examined them for a moment and somehow extended them *further.* Yeego swallowed
and laid his ears back in unconscious submission, which provoked a dark rumbling
chitter from the Great Father.

"Like I said...Anyway, I gotta 'member to thank Gyotin for the idea, 'leastways
after I'm done bitin' his tail 'fer suggestin' it." He rumbled a deep chuckling
chitter. "What d'ya think?"

Yeego looked at Daar's handiwork. It was a sparse arrangement, very clean of
line with a wide, open vase in which the plant sat. Austere yet...beautiful. It
seemed a very Gaoian thing. Once *again* Yeego realized he had greatly
underestimated the Great Father, and once again he reminded himself how
dangerous and foolish that was.

"...I think Fyu would be proud," Yeego said honestly.

Daar's expression was complex. He wasn't angry and he wasn't amused. He
was...thoughtful. Not something one typically expected of a Stoneback,
especially not one as obviously purebred a brownfur as Daar.

 "Yer prob'ly wondering why yer here, ain't ya?" he asked Yeego, appraising him
 finally in turn.

"I am, Great Father, yes," Yeego said.

"We got a problem, Champion, an' I think it's one you and your Clan are our
best...*only*...bet at finding a solution on," Daar said bluntly. "There's a
Keeda-damned big Corti ship with a coupla escorts sittin' right outside our
system shield right now. That's one problem."

"That is...concerning, yes."

"The other problem is, I can guess why they're here. The line they fed Yefrig
and the *Racing Thunder* was that they're here for the relief effort. I think
they wanna make a profit off us, and I ain't feelin' real charitable about it."

"Whatever it is they're selling, it could certainly aid with this plague. At
what cost though?"

The Great Father stood away from the table, and walked over to look out the
window. "We **can't** allow our people to get taken advantage of by war
profiteers, Champion. I'd bet whatever that ship's carryin', or can make, could
make the difference between us making it through this year okay an' not. It's
one of their big biological research vessels that they use for terraforming."

Yeego's ears splayed out in shock. "That's the equivalent of an industrial
nanofactory, but for medication, crop seed stocks, and almost anything else we
could need."

Daar looked back at him. "That's right. An' I'm about to hand you the task of
cutting a deal with them for it. You **must** succeed, Champion. Whatever they
have, you need to get, an' we have to be able to afford it."

Yeego bowed in a daze, echoing the ceremony from several months before when he
and the other Champions had knelt before the Great Father. The promise of almost
literally unlimited wealth, prestige, influence...all of the things he had
always valued and fought for as Goldpaw's Champion, *paled* ***utterly*** before
the task he was being given. The risk of it...entering into negotiations with
the most notorious technological merchants of all, for a prize that could save
the Gao from sickness, death, and despair...it was unlike any challenge anyone
had ever been given, and it made his answer stick in his throat a little, for
all that it was an easy thing to say.

"My Father, Goldpaw will not fail you. We will not fail our people." There was
nothing else *to* say.

"Outstanding," Great Father Daar rumbled. "I won't keep you, Champion. Hurry."

Yeego turned and left, not even closing the door behind him and pattering down
the stairs. Daar followed a few steps behind and hung in the doorway as Regaari
gave him an inquisitive look.

"Well? He looked excited."

"You'd think I'd just offered him a mating contract," Daar said.

"I doubt very much he would survive such an encounter with you, Cousin."

Daar sniffed. "I'm too much man for him anyway."

---

**Date Point: 14Y 5M 1W AV**

**Grand Commune Construction Site, Tiritya Island, Cimbrean**

**Sister Naydra**

> Naydra,

> So I said I'd send you a picture. I don't know how much more ~~engli~~
~~elnig~~ englightened I feel now. My paws ~~ain~~ aren't very well suited for
stuff like this, so I suppose I got some exercise in patience out of it~~t~~ at
least. Looks cool, though, don't it?

> Sorry about the spelling. Guess what else I don't get lots of practice with?

> Had an unexpected thing happen yesterday. A couple of Corti ships showed up at
our front door! The big ship they brought is a bio-research ship. I don't know
what they want or they're offering, but I sent the Goldpaw Champion to go find
out. I can't let them make a profit off us, but at the same time, I don't know
if we can turn away whatever they're able to bring in. Things are so precarious
now.

> The sickness is starting to pass, I think. We haven't had very many deaths.
The key seems to be staying active while recovering. Sitting still or lying down
gives the virus too much of a grip on a person's ability to breathe. Most of the
deaths have actually been biodrones, which I guess could be worse, but we've had
a few cubs and elderly that couldn't fight it off. I think we've evacuated
almost a million and a half Females and cubs now.

> I don't know what else to say about what you've suggested. I know you want it,
~~and I~~ but I can't. The title puts me in a place that...I don't know how to
put this. The Great Father has some really ~~fuc~~ ancient obligations, cuz Fyu,
he weren't actually the first one. It would put you in a position of always
being alone, being cut off from your sisters as well as other Males. You'd never
be able to take a contract from a male other than me, ever again, and that just
ain't right, because I can't make that same promise to you. I'm still
Stoneback's Stud-Prime. I have several mating contracts everyday now, I don't
wanna hurt you with that.

> I hope you understand.

> Daar

---

**Date Point: 14Y 5M 1W 1D AV**

**Conference room, High Mountain, Gao**

**Champion Yeego, Goldpaw**

Yeego examined the tips of his claws and wished, not for the first time in the
last five months, that he hadn't lost his gold claw-sheaths. They had been a
gift from a particularly fruitful mating contract a number of years before, and
had always helped him focus just that little bit more. Or at least it seemed
that way.

The Goldpaw Fathers that were available at short notice had gathered to High
Mountain with some annoyance. To a man, every last one of them had multiple
projects aloft that they were juggling, whether it was speculation on Naxas dung
or jockeying for control of *huna* juice futures. Taking time out to actually
physically travel was an irritation, and although they knew that Yeego wouldn't
have gathered them together without good reason, it was hard to think what in
Keeda's name could be this important. Once they were assembled, Yeego, brought
the lights down and activated the 3D viewer.

"This is the Corti bio-research and supply vessel *Common Denominator*, and its
protective escorts. They are currently hanging just outside our system shield,"
he said bluntly. "Two days ago, they were intercepted on route here by the
*Racing Thunder* and apparently told Ship Father Yefrig that they are here for
the relief effort."

"Corti philanthropists?" asked Grandfather Margu archly.

"Hardly," Yeego said, amused. "Great Father Daar and I spoke yesterday, and he
and I are in agreement. I believe this ship is here essentially as a war
profiteering venture. Great Father Daar feels, as do I, that only Goldpaw has
the expertise to negotiate with them for their supplies and support. He has
assigned it to us."

"That kind of support certainly could make a difference, for the population and
for the Grand Army the Great Father is so intent on creating," said Margu.

Yeego duck-nodded in acknowledgement. "We must not fail. I will lead the
negotiation team, but all of you are vital to its success. The shuttle leaves in
two hours, and in that time we must plan an attack as well as compile an
accounting of our assets. We dare not approach negotiation with the Corti from
anything other than a position of strength."

---

**Date Point: 14Y 5M 1W 2D AV**

**Office of the Great Father, High Mountain, Gao**

**Father Regaari**

Receiving an actual *package* was odd enough that Regaari put aside what he'd
been working on when it arrived. The return address was a Cimbrean one, and it
was in a definitely feminine hand...handwritten no less...on a flat but somewhat
lumpy package that had a heft to it.

His sharp ears caught what sounded like a conclusion to the Great Father's
meeting, and knowing Daar would want to get whatever this was, probably sooner
rather than later, he went ahead and slit it open. He wasn't always in a great
mood following this kind of appointment, and Regaari hoped that whatever was in
the package changed that.

Out slid an actual printed picture, a sealed letter, which he cut open without
reading it, and a lengthy flat gold chain with a claw-sized and shaped nugget of
polished black rock that sparkled a little as he picked it up and turned it,
little flecks of gold light catching the overhead lamp. The picture he turned
over, as it had landed upside down on the desk; it was of a stylized female
Gaoian, wearing a red kerchief and a blue shirt with the sleeves rolled up, and
a wrench in one hand. Above and below, in English were the words, "We Can Do
It!!"

> Daar,

> This time I went ahead and sent a letter in a physical form, since I had the
other thing to send you as well. It is from me to you, but it is also from the
Clan of Females to the Great Father (I was told I needed to make that clear, but
of course I agree with it completely). It's one of the first pieces of stone cut
in making the Grand Commune.

> I wonder sometimes if you understand how much you're overthinking things
between us. I know you're still Stoneback's Stud-Prime. I haven't forgotten that
for a moment...indeed, I don't think there's a Female alive that's capable of
forgetting it. You *need* to be what you are, my Daar. Do not ever stop
pretending to be anything but the most bestest Stoneback.

> I'll admit, I didn't know about the obligations you spoke of. It doesn't
change anything for me now that I do know.

> The flowers are wonderful! What was Gyotin's inspiration for it, do you know?

> Oh, something else I wanted to show you. You remember the ad campaign I
mentioned? It looks like someone picked up on the idea. The picture I enclosed
is a meme that has been making the rounds of the Human internet, I'm told. A
journalist with ESNN thought I'd find that interesting and gave me a copy of it
in exchange for some comments that she said she wanted to publish.

> Naydra

---

**Later**

"Your engagements for tonight have arrived, My Father. Should I send them up?"

"...Don't feel right, somedays. Yeah. Send 'em up." There was a heavy-sounding
sigh from the other side of the door.

Regaari paused. "...Daar?" *That didn't sound good.* The door opened, with the
hulking form of the Grea...no, *Daar* on the other side. He'd dutifully tidied
himself up and combed out his short coat of fur in anticipation of his evening's
company. Most days Regaari could *smell* Daar's legendary eagerness and it was
enough to drive anyone to distraction, but tonight...

Daar gave him a serious look, thought for a long moment, and sighed again.
"Regaari, Cousin...I think I'm falling in love."

Regaari returned the serious look, with a sense of sympathy. "I wondered how
long it was going to take you to admit it."

"Cousin..." Daar trailed off. Abruptly he *thumped* the doorframe with a meaty
paw balled into a fist, hard enough to cause dust to fall, but not hard enough
to permanently damage anything.

"I *can't* fall in love. Or...well, no. I can. But I can't do what needs t'be
done about it. I can't do that to her, an' it's killin' me. It ain't fair to
every other male, neither! Why do I deserve somethin' our species had 'ta
abandon?"

"You're the Great Father. You are suffering for us all, Cousin."

Daar chittered a little, although there was no mirth in it. "You know what the
worst part is?" Regaari just cocked an ear at him. "The worst part is, just a
year or two ago, it woulda just been a scandal, right? What's this do to us, if
I set this kinda precedent? We *can't* go back to that kinda...arrangement, even
if the Females would allow it, which they won't."

Regaari thought for a moment. "You know, having their Grand Commune on Cimbrean
is going to change things. A lot." Daar nodded soberly.

"It will. I see things changin' already. I s'pect they'll end up settin' up some
kinda facility in their Commune for it, and Males will need to go there, to
them. They ain't said, but that's my guess."

"So, to your problem..."

"What about it? There ain't a solution, far as I can see, other than what I'm
doin'."

"Then perhaps the rest of this conversation is something you need to have with
*her*."

Daar rested his massive forehead against the door frame. "I know. Problem is,
every time I'm 'round her, my brain turns off. How'm I supposed to **talk** when
I can't fuckin' **think**?"

Regaari reached up with one consoling hand. "One problem at a time, I think. And
that question is one I don't think anyone has the answer to."

"I'm gonna have to just keep doin' what I'm doin'. There ain't a solution I can
see that doesn't hurt anybody other than me, and I ain't gonna do that. That
ain't the Stoneback...fuck. That ain't **my** way."

---

**Date Point: 14Y 5M 1W 6D AV**

**Construction site for the Grand Commune, Tiritya Island, Cimbrean**

**Mother Kyrie**

The Dig was going *remarkably* well, Kyrie thought for perhaps the hundredth
time that day. As the architect and construction supervisor, she'd thought her
role was going to be much more looking at a screen, making "hmm" noises and
suggestions, and be generally hands-off. Apparently, that wasn't how it was done
on projects like this when Humans got involved. Instead, to her utter delight,
she found herself almost constantly busy, far below the surface. She ended every
day with muddy paws. Every day, there was dust and rock and mud in her
tightly-curled ruddy fur, and every day she ended up taking a dip in the ocean
or a river to wash it out, and she *loved* it.

Human industrial machinery was a study in brutish elegance, much like Humans
themselves. Gaoians had invented such things, to be sure, but their designs were
somehow less...solid, less elegantly simple, and, well...

There was no easy way around it, but the boring machine and the way it *thrust*
into the rock, moving forward inexorably, with its lubricating slurry and the
screw hauling out the excavated stone was just...**sexual**. Uncomfortably so.
The first time she'd seen the thing operating, she was involuntarily catapulted
back to her first mating contract for a moment and had had to take a deep breath
and focus.

The major excavation was going on in several directions at the same time. First
in had been the massive central shafts for transportation up and down, water,
hydroponics, and some light. That was still ongoing, the massive machines
chewing up rock as though they were heated knives going through chocolate,
moving ever downwards until they were ready to turn and begin carving out the
bottom level for the industrial machinery that had to support the Commune.

At a higher level, far enough below the surface that surface buildings could
still be supported, was the first of the primary living levels, with long, wide
hallway tunnels that would have suspended floors above the support lines,
snaking out to larger dormitory halls, kitchens, and classroom/gym spaces,
offices. Finally, at the edge of the digging area, she had designed a space for
the Mother-Supreme, an office complex with bedrooms, an outer defense perimeter,
and a private balcony with deep-set porch overlooking the north sea.

The humans' tunnel boring machines were only the first step. Finer work, with
remaining pillars and arches of living rock, would have to be carved over the
next few centuries as the Females truly moved in and made the space their own.
First, they had to have enough space to live in. As the machines bored out
tunnels, then turned again and again to carve out living spaces, they left
behind tunnels buttressed with segments of natural-looking basalt, formed out of
the tailings by the clever engineers of Dark Eye and shipped back in exchange
for raw material. The inside of the tunnels, when one hit it with light, was a
deep interstellar black, but with flakes and flecks of gold everywhere, like
tiny stars.

"Kyrie!" called one of the human engineers, waving her over. When she was close
enough that they could hear each other clearly past the hearing protection they
both wore, he leaned in and continued loudly.

"He's moving along pretty good today. I think we'll have this one done in about
an hour, and then we can move on to the major side passages."

*He?* Kyrie looked up at the backside of the enormous drill head, upon which was
hung a sign spray painted in an obscenely bright orange spraypaint, "RASCAL".
*Oh. The machine.*

"That's good!" she yelled back. "As soon as this level is ready, the
Mother-Supreme's orders are to start moving refugees in."

"Well, that'll take longer than it looks. Still have to actually carve out the
living spaces, and that takes longer 'cause it ain't just a tube that we can put
reinforcement cladding into. It's amazin' what these babies can do, innit?
Rascal here bores over spec so far now he's practically in his own class."

Kyrie duck-nodded. "Watching them work has been amazing. We have tunneling
machines, but they don't work like this, and the process of excavation isn't
quite as well...thought out." For the Sisters that had experience doing
excavation and mining, watching the human boring machines had been an exercise
in figurative head-slapping. It wasn't what was being done, it was the thought
process that put it into practice that made Human ingenuity so...so
*frustratingly* obvious in hindsight.

"Your Sisters have been *amazing* at this, though, I gotta tell you. Sister
Leelo. That girl's a natural born miner, man. She's, like, a mechanical genius
or something; I didn't think it was possible to get this kinda performance outta
Rascal, but lookit him go!" He gestured up at the enormous bore head, turning
and slicing away rock in a steady churn. Doing away with the conventional bits
and using fusion cutters had actually not only sped the thing up, it had
noticeably lowered the amount of ambient noise it put out.

If only everything could be improved that way.

"Why are you building everything underground, anyway?" the human asked her. "You
Gaoians are such...I dunno, above ground types, living underground just seems
odd."

"A bunch of reasons, I think," Kyrie said, motioning him away from the enormous
machine straining and grinding at the rock face. "The material we're mining out
here is getting used as building material here and elsewhere, and this is
essentially an armored bunker. The Great Father sent us here to be safe, and I
took that literally when I was designing the base for the colony layout."

"Kind of a hard way to go about it, Sister," he said.

"That's true," Kyrie returned. "Maybe it's easier to think of it as a den. I
suspect as time goes by, we'll want to move above ground and put whatever
industry we want to build here below...but I thought of this as a
three-dimensional complex of buildings, not just building on the surface."

"By the time we're done here, Sister, you'll have room for probably at least a
good half-million, maybe even a million Females and cubs underground. That's
pretty well fortified."

"If you notice, I included space for jump portals to be built underground as
well. The Females will never be slaughtered like we were again."

"I noticed the armories labeled on the diagram. You're serious about all of
this, aren't you?"

"Wouldn't you be?"

---

**Date Point: 14Y 5M 2W 3D AV**

**Tiritya Island Refugee Camp, Tiritya Island, Cimbrean**

**Mother Ginai**

Even with all of the additional refugees that continued to stream almost
uninterrupted through the jump portals from Gao, Ginai found herself at the
center of attention for younger Females needing guidance, direction,
instructions, life advice, cub-raising advice, and all manner of other subjects.
She'd asked for and had gotten a larger tent as a sort of office for exactly
this sort of thing.

One thing she hadn't prepared for in her long life, however, was a Female so
scarred from her time upon Gao that she never wanted cubs again, and never
wanted to lay eyes on a Male again.

The Female in question sat in the corner of her office. She was a broken-looking
little thing, scarred from her ordeal and from the rough attentions of the
violent Clanless males that had taken her and her Sisters hostage for months.
They'd been freed after months of daily, often hourly violations, and many of
her Sisters had died in the process.

Great Father Daar hadn't been there to free her or the other survivors. The fate
of the Clanless males had been just as brutal as the fate he had dealt Koruum;
the Grand Army soldiers that had found them had literally torn their captors to
bloody rags. The Great Father couldn't be everywhere, unfortunately, and the
soldiers that had freed them had said more than once that they felt freeing them
couldn't wait.

Nothing could bring back her sense of self.

"Are you *certain* this is what you want, Sister Wuuyi?" Ginai asked. She'd
already asked, and had been answered, once, but it was best to be sure.

Wuuyi bristled. Her mangled, torn ears twitched this way and that, and even with
the best healing that Gaoian medicine had to offer, even with the best attention
from the Openpaws, the ropy keloid scars that marred her fur would probably
never heal enough to make her beautiful again, and it was evident that she knew
it.

"Mother...I want to be left *alone*. I don't want to ever have to deal with a
Male again. No matter who it may be, I will *always* remember."

"May I show you something, Sister?" Ginai asked. The only response was a
noncommittal shrug. "I would like to suggest you read something, given to me by
a friend of mine at the Folctha camp before I came here. I've found an
interesting and unique peace in it. Maybe it will help you." She reached into
the chest sitting next to her chair and took a book out.

"This was translated by Champion Gyotin of Starmind. I know," she held up a
forestalling paw as Wuuyi immediately made a gesture and noise of rejection. "I
know. But he didn't write this. It's a human text." She handed it to her
visitor, who turned it over in her paws to read the blurb on the back, her
natural curiosity asserting itself.

*"Rose Madder....Stephen King,"* Wuuyi read aloud.

"It's an interesting concept, and story. It's fiction, but it's relatable. I
think you might like it."

"What's the story?"

"You'll have to read it. I think it may help you think more about yourself, and
less about what's *happened* to you."

---

**Date Point: 14Y 5M 3W AV**

**Grand Commune Excavation & Construction Site, Tiritya Island, Cimbrean**

**Sister Naydra**

Naydra couldn't help shifting a little from one foot to the other as she stood
with the others awaiting the arrival of some distinguished guests. Great Father
Daar, she knew, was coming, and he was apparently bringing along several
others...Champion Fiin of Stoneback, Champion Turan of Ironclaw, and a few other
specialists in excavation and construction. She had a *little* more trepidation
than some of the Females there, she figured, but everybody was a little on edge.

It wasn't an "inspection", and it didn't need "approval". The Great Father had
been *quite* clear about that when he had grudgingly accepted their request to
come and tour the progress they'd made so far. As a matter of fact, he had all
but demanded that they acknowledge that, and it had been the Mother-Supreme that
had finally put paid to that discussion by tartly pointing out that they'd
already submitted to him formally. His grumbling about that had reportedly been
epic.

Naydra privately also thought there was another, major reason. Digging was
undignified in a way, and no amount of persuasion could keep the Great Father
from trying to help. Daar, quite possibly the greatest Gaoian to ever live,
ennobled and dignified as the savior of their people despite his simple, brutish
origins...or perhaps *because* of them...

...could never turn down an opportunity to dig in the dirt.

The designated time arrived, and right on cue, the eye-warping utter blackness
of stasis flashed, giving way to the Great Father himself and his entourage. His
eyes, set in a head that was head and shoulders *above* everyone else, flicked
around the reception and settled on Naydra. With an ear-flick that would have
been uncertainty in anyone else, he and the others stepped down from the
platform, and they began the tour.

They didn't get much of a chance to talk. Naydra didn't have a lot to say in the
tour after all, as she wasn't involved in the actual dig, or the above-ground
construction, or even the burgeoning farms/Naxas ranches that some enterprising
Sisters had set up a few miles from the outskirts of the ever-expanding main
camp. The flow of refugees from Gao continued, almost unabated despite the camps
there being empty; almost in unison, the Clan of Females had determined that its
destiny lay in self-determination, and almost to the last of them, they were
making it so. Naydra's role was in administration, for which she had
demonstrated an aptitude she'd surprised herself with, in getting people from
one place to another and ensure that the logistics of supporting them once they
got there were in place.

It took some doing. Fortunately, in the Humans, she had excellent teachers for
those rare things she didn't already have an understanding of.

Great Father Daar insisted on watching the massive machinery brought from Earth
work, and it was evident from Champion Turan's furiously blank expression that
he was internally evaluating exactly how much advancement Ironclaw might get for
itself in taking on collaboration with Human industry. For the Great Father's
part, it was obvious he was enraptured by the machines, like a cub watching
something so massively cool that he had to just nerd out about it a little. She
edged a little closer, the opportunity presenting itself while he was getting
all googly with the gigantic thing.

Abruptly she realized he was humming something, and...well, not *singing*,
exactly, because that implied the ability to carry a tune.

*"...digging a hole....diggy diggy hole...diggy diggy hooooooollle..."* was all
she could make out. Mercifully, he noticed her coming up behind him and broke
off.

"Sister Naydra," he duck-nodded formally. "Are you well?"

She gave him a mock-outraged head-tilt and crossed her arms. "You know I am, we
exchange messages at least twice daily, you hairy lump." Incongruously, she
noticed something. Daar was wearing the pendant she'd sent him, although most of
the chain was buried in his fur and the pendant was at exactly the right height
to get lost in his chest ruff.

His ears went back, and for a moment she was afraid she'd misjudged his mood.
With visible control, he relaxed, his ears came forward, and if she hadn't been
able to smell the wave of frustration coming off him, she'd never have been able
to tell that he was upset.

"I'm sorry," she said as he *whuffed* a deep breath. "That wasn't...[ladylike]
of me." She used a Human word she'd learned a few days earlier. HIs ears did a
complicated dance atop his head as he sorted that out.

"Sister..." he trailed off uncertainly. Seeing the Great Fath...no, *Daar*,
uncertain was like watching an earthquake decline an invitation to a tea party.
There was something fundamentally unnatural about it. The scent of frustration,
pain, and, stymied desire roiled off him in a cloud that was almost visible.
Absently, she noticed that the other Gaoians had moved their conversation a
little further down the tunnel to give the two of them some privacy.

"I know." She drew close to him and put a paw on his massive arm. "I know. I
read every letter you send me, some more than once. I *know* how you feel about
this...but I know you feel the same way I do."

"Sister..." he began again, visibly struggling with his composure. "I would give
you anything. Anything but that. I *can't*. It don't matter if I want it, an' it
don't matter how much you do either. This' somethin' that *can't be*. I'm sorry.
I hafta be the face of our people, an' now more than ever, takin' a mate is..."

She reached up and put a shushing finger across his mouth, not caring at all how
scandalous it would look or what the various dignitaries a short distance away
trying valiantly not to notice would think. His eyes boggled a little, and she
realized absently that this was probably the first time since he'd been smaller
than she was now that a Female had shushed him.

"I know there are difficulties. You suffer on behalf of all of us, and it has to
be in silence. I understand that, and I welcome it. I'm offering you the ability
to set that aside, if only for a little while at a time."

One enormous paw clenched in frustration, then relaxed. He hung his head a
little.

"I...I'm sorry, Sister. It ain't gonna work out that way." He keened a little
under his breath. "It don't matter how much I want it or don't want it, and it
don't matter how much yer willin'....it just ain't gonna work." He steeled
himself and stood erect out of the slump.

"We need to get on with the tour. 'Nuff questions are gonna get asked about this
already." He led her back to the group, and the tour resumed, although the Great
Father was much quieter and inwardly focused for the rest of it.

Naydra trailed the group at the back, also lost in thought. He'd said something
a few days ago about getting advice from Champion Gyotin...the flower
arrangement thing. Part of Daar's problem, she knew, was that he felt like he
was so alone...and in a way he was, but he had allies that were working on his
behalf that he wasn't ready to admit existed.

She let herself back up to the top as the tour concluded, and made a comm call.

If she couldn't get through Daar's intransigence alone, she'd just have to have
some help.

---

**Date Point: 14Y 5M 3W AV**

**Riverfront Park, Folctha, Cimbrean**

**Nofl**

Nofl had found, unexpectedly, that he rather enjoyed taking walks in the
evening. It was odd, and he often found himself ruminating on why he enjoyed it.
A simple belt-mounted emitter and power pack kept him shielded from the rain,
and he found he rather enjoyed the *pitter patter* of raindrops on his makeshift
umbrella as he walked. His main postulated reason for why he, a result of
generations of Corti that disdained physical activity in nearly every way,
should enjoy such a thing was that the Humans had simply rubbed off on him, as
they seemed to do with everything.

The other benefit, of course, of his shield in dim light was that he was lit up
enough to not be summarily trampled by the Humans, Human pets such as dogs, and
Gaoians that often used his favorite trail. It made for a nice peaceful stroll,
with the relaxing light drumming sound of rain and just enough solitude to be
able to think, and just enough people to watch.

People-watching, it seemed, was becoming one of Nofl's newest hobbies.

He had found himself pacing a group of senior Mothers and listening to their
conversation this particular evening, as they, in turn, walked behind a larger
group of junior Mothers and...there was nothing else to call it but a *horde* of
Gaoian youngsters tearing about on fourpaw, climbing all the things, jumping,
puddle-stomping, and otherwise wreaking havoc.

Wisely, the senior Mothers he was shadowing were keeping enough distance that
they were out of the line of fire for errant throws of mud and other
unmentionables. He listened, idly ruminating on a vexing theoretical model for
the perfect mix of mushrooms from Origin and Terra to make the perfect risotto,
when something one of the Mothers was saying caught his ear.

"...*Common Denominator* showed up. I guess the Great Father thought of the
Goldpaws to do the negotiations," she was saying.

"I have a friend who had a contract with Champion Yeego once," said another. "By
the time those two were done, that contract was fifty pages at least of terms
and conditions."

There was a general round of chittering at that. The second Mother went on.

"I tell you, if they sent out *him* to do the negotiations, those Corti will be
lucky to walk away without having to pay for their own waste reclamation!" There
was another gale of chittering.

"Still, it says a lot that the Corti were willing to come and help at all," said
a third Mother, who had been hanging towards the back of the group a little.
"None of the rest of the Dominion did, I notice. I guess we know who our friends
are." The others made little yips of agreement.

Nofl fell back so as not to make it obvious he'd been listening, and primly
smiled to himself.

It was nice when plans turned out as one projected.

---

**Date Point: 14Y 5M 3W AV**

**Female Commune, Alien Quarter, Folctha, Cimbrean**

**Toran and Tybal, Clanless**

Lots of exercise and hard training. Lots and *lots* of food, all of it rich and
dense. Some of it was Gaoian, much of it was Terran, all of it was more than the
cubs had ever dreamed they would be eating in a single sitting. And they were
being made to eat *constantly,* it seemed.

It had results, though. Strength. *Performance.* Thurrsto's tender ministrations
had packed an incredible amount of muscle onto the two formerly-lanky teens, and
done so very, very quickly.

They'd finally reached their age of majority, and even if they'd done so in a
refugee camp, it was still worth noting. Before the end of their world had
descended upon them a few months before, they'd expected the usual series of
adjustments, ideally getting snapped up by a Clan they'd tried out for and
expressed interest in. More likely, they'd have been Clanless, at least
initially; most cubs were. Both, though, had had a lively interest and laser
focus on Whitecrest, and the intervening few months under the tutelage of the
*mostest* Whitecrests anyone had ever heard of had done nothing to diminish that
in any way.

Which was why they were sitting at the Female Commune, waiting for an
appointment. Both had gone through their morning ablutions early, combing out
fur and getting generally as visibly *ready* as they were capable of, despite
having little idea what they were about to go through.

Finally, the door opened, and Mother Myun came in, followed by Thurrsto and
Faarek, who they knew, and another Whitecrest they...didn't...but...

*Daar's balls*, it was **Genshi**. The Whitecrest Champion.

They looked at each other, and both gulped.

"And here we are," said Myun breezily. "Champion, Brothers....these are Toran,
and Tybal." She gestured to each of them in turn. "I'll leave you to it. And
boys," she said, pointing at her own eyes and then at them with two fingers on
one paw, "Good luck." She winked, and exited.

Champion Genshi, Brother Thurrsto, and Brother Faarek sat opposite them as Myun
closed the door behind herself.

"Normally," Champion Genshi said, "This would be done by a Father. Champions
rarely take on sponsorship of recruits, as I'm sure you can imagine. Father
Regaari, however, is currently busy with other duties."

"Tell me why you want to be Whitecrests."

They'd planned for this, a little, although neither had been expecting who
they'd be speaking *to*. Toran spoke first.

"Champion, I...we...want to make a difference."

"There are many ways to make a difference. Even the Clanless do-the Grand Army
of the Gao would not exist without their perseverance," Genshi replied.

"Champion, with all of the...darkness...that surrounds us, with everything
that's happened, every light is necessary," Tybal said. "Whitecrest's
words...speak...to us."

"And we've already had some experience at Brother Thurrsto's paws," Toran put
in.

"Oh, that was barely a taste of *real* trials," Thurrsto growled. "You two have
done passably well, but you will have to prove yourself to be Whitecrest
material, and that's not the same thing. The work we've been doing is enough to
get you admitted to the Grand Army, and probably to one of the labor Clans, but
Whitecrests have to be able to think."

"Then teach us," Toran said.

Genshi leaned back in his chair and chittered a bit, looking over at Thurrsto.
"You did say they're sharp, Brother," he said. He looked back at the two
no-longer-quite-cubs. "If you'd said you knew already how to think, I would have
had some hesitation about this."

"Understand something, though, young Associates," he continued, suddenly
serious, "Every year, applicants to the Rites *die* during those trials, and we
will not change our standards now. You will be tested, and taught, and forced to
learn beyond what you think your limits are now. If you choose to go ahead with
the Rites and become full Brothers, you won't be who you think you are now."

"Yes, Champion!" the two newest Whitecrest Associates barked.

"Gather your things and be at the jump portal back to Gao in twenty minutes,"
Genshi said. "You're coming back with me to Gao."

---

**Date Point: 14Y 6M 2D AV**

**Great Father's Cabinet, High Mountain Fortress, Northern Plains, Gao**

**Champion Gyotin, Clan Starmind**

Gyotin found that the brisk air at this altitude made getting around just a bit
less enjoyable than it might have at a younger age. The comparatively *much*
warmer temperature of Folctha and his monastery made for much easier sitting and
thinking on aged bones.

The Champions had assembled, as was their custom, in the room that had always
been used for the Conclave, around the enormous ancient wooden table that had
served them thus for millenia. Everyone was on time, for once, except...

"Where is the Great Father?" Gyotin asked the room. Looks were exchanged, then
finally, Genshi of Whitecrest replied.

"He's in his private gym at the moment. Working off some frustration, I believe
he told Regaari. I'm sure he doesn't intend to be late and will be in shortly."

Gyotin duck-nodded. "While...while he is not here, there is something of some
importance that I believe we need to discuss."

Champion Goruu from Firefang was the first to reply. "Discussing something of
importance without the Great Father could be taken many ways, Gyotin."

Gyotin nodded again in agreement. "Indeed. In this case, however, what we need
to discuss **is** the Great Father, and I think you of all of us can appreciate
how doing that in front of him might turn out, yes?" Scattered chittering went
around the room.

"We have a problem," Gyotin started. "I've been hearing from several directions
that the movement of the Clan of Females to Cimbrean and safety is having...an
unfortunate effect. They're becoming almost cloistered. It's harder and harder
to even *see* a Female, much less socially contact one, and the long-term effect
on mating contracts is going to be catastrophic if something isn't done."

"That is a problem. What do you propose we do about it? They've moved with the
Great Father's full support. I don't think any force in creation could change
that course now," asked Genshi, who was leaning back in his chair.

"A solution has presented itself. The Great Father, however, is resistant to it
thus far." Gyotin said. "He needs a mate. Not a mating contract-an actual
*mate* in the old way, with everything that goes along with it, both as a Male
and Female, and as the Great Father with the Clan of Females."

A sussuruss went around the room, the Champions looking at each other. All had a
mix of scandalized realization and grudging agreement.

"He will *definitely* not agree to that," said Champion Reeko of Straightshield.
"For one thing, the precedent he would set, with a *monogamous* female, could be
catastrophic in our population ratio. The Clanless could easily conclude,
correctly, that there would literally never again be a chance for them to mate
and have cubs."

"He's also still Stoneback's Stud-Prime," Champion Fiin said. "Having a mate in
the old way is directly opposed to everything about that. Why would he *ever*
agree to it?"

"Because," Gyotin said, "he's already in love with her, and she with him. I
received a message from Sister Naydra a few days ago. Apparently they correspond
several times a day by message already, the subject has been raised, and thus
far, he's reportedly resisted for many of the same reasons already voiced here."
Genshi and Turan of Ironclaw were the only ones that weren't visibly surprised,
he noted.

"I think this is an opportunity to deal with several problems at once," Gyotin
continued into the silence. "For one, this deepens the ties between the Males
and the Females-there are many, many examples of it in the Human literature,
and yes, I know we aren't Humans," he held up a paw, "But the point is still a
good one."

Scattered agreement went around the room, and Gyotin kept speaking, warming to
his subject. He'd thought about what he was going to say for several days. "For
another, recall if you will that he is in this position because of all the
Clans, the Females demanded it first. Symbolically, the Mother-Supreme
submitting to him does not mean the same as it does from us, because the Great
Father would ***never*** harm a Female, and all of us know it. Symbolically,
submission from the Females requires something different."

The agreement was much more universal at this point. Champion Loomi of
Highmountain stood, stretching his spine and arms, then spoke.

"You are proposing something that hasn't been done since Fyu's time. He will
almost certainly see this as taking away her independence and her connection to
her Sisters, and he won't be completely wrong about it."

Gyotin acknowledged it with an ear-flick. "Indeed. And if it were a random
Female that we were proposing to mate to him, I could not in good conscience
support it on that alone. This is not, however, the situation we find ourselves
in. Rest assured, Sister Naydra wants this, and so does he. She's simply the
only one that will admit it at the moment."

The Great Father chose that particular moment to come stalking into the room,
still obviously heated from his workout and not in the least bit de-frustrated.
His sudden *presence* in the room put a halt to the conversation, and at the
obvious interruption, he paused, then sat at the head of the table. The chair
creaked in protest under him when he flomped into it.

"Well, don' let me stop you all jawin," he rumbled. "Gyotin, you clearly got a
bone or somethin' stuck in yer gullet, I can smell it on ya."

Gyotin bowed; that was an apt statement from the Great Father. Now that the
moment was actually here to put his plan into motion, he was more than a little
nervous. When Daar prowled into the room he pulled with him a musk encompassing
exactly what he had been doing and...well, Civilized pretensions aside, that
kind of thing had an effect. Everyone felt subdued, and rightfully so.

He would never voice it, nobody would. But Daar was the unquestioned *alpha* of
his people.

Gyotin screwed up his resolve and forged on, with a quick look around the room
for support. "My Father, we were discussing a solution to a thorny bramble of
problems. I fear...you will not enjoy the conversation."

The only response was a deadpan look back at him. Finally, the Great Father
growled, "Ain't much I've enjoyed since this started, Gyotin. No reason 'fer it
to start now."

That was an opening, and Gyotin struck for it.

"That is one of the problems. You are *suffering*, My Father, we can all see it.
We can *smell* it, even Champion Yeego."

Daar gave a small grumbling chitter at that; Yeego's nose was hardly better than
a Human's and that small tease had become a part of the Champion's camaraderie.
Yeego himself pant-grinned just a little.

"I ain't gonna deny it. But that's what being the Great Father has *always*
meant. Fyu wasn't the first, an' I won't be the last."

"He was the first to bear the title, but your meaning is understood. We disagree
about your self-imposed suffering. Fyu understood this. He had confidants, more
than a few. So must you."

The Great Father bristled a little, and Gyotin's heart went out to him.

"-Your feelings on this are virtually irrelevant, My Father. The Gao *need*
you in balance. It is not just the Champions who have noticed. The public is
beginning to talk. There is muted *approval* of such a thing, My Father. There
is even a workhouse drama being written about you, according to Genshi. It's
likely to enter production soon."

"What would you have me do, Gyotin?" Daar surged from his seat, which gave up
entirely and toppled over backwards. "I hardly ever get 'ta *lift* anymore! I
ain't had a solid brawl in damn near a month! How in the name of Fyu's smelly
balls am I gonna justify a *consort?!"*

The room went dead silent. Daar's scent was now so overwhelming, Gyotin could
smell nothing else. The Great Father growled and prowled over to Gyotin, who
stood next to his own chair. Daar sniffed the air around Gyotin, then rose to
his full commanding height.

"What 'bout everyone else? Why the fuck am I special enough 'ta warrant an
institution we abolished a thousand years ago?!" He stood snarling over Gyotin,
clearly ready to tear someone or something into bite-sized morsels. Gyotin took
internal refuge in his Zen studies and remained outwardly unruffled.

"You are the *Great Father* and you suffer for us all. No one could possibly
miss that fact."

***"I know I am.*** None of you let me forget it, not even fer a **moment!!"**

"Because our lives are in your unmatched paws, My Father. This is not 'throne
sniffing' as you've said before. This is a matter of our *survival."*

"I can't take on a mate, Gyotin. I *can't*, don't you understand?? This ain't
somethin' I'm just makin' up! ***I can't allow myself that!"***

Gyotin reacted without thought, without impulse, and utterly out of necessity.
He reached up and *slapped* Daar across his gigantic contorted face with an open
paw, his claws pulled back in. If the room could have gotten any more silent as
the echoes of their argument faded out, it would almost have been in stasis.

"You will **fail** as the Great Father, if you don't allow yourself to also be
Daar and love *her* like you're meant to," Gyotin said into the silence.

Daar stood, poleaxed, and reached up absently to feel his face where Gyotin had
struck him. Abruptly, his face contorted, and he began keening in a truly
*awful* howl that carried with it a sense of utter loss...loss of his people,
his life before, his friends...

The Great Father pounced, scooped Gyotin up and...hugged, in desperation and
pain. He squeezed so hard Gyotin felt something pop very painfully in his chest
but that was of no concern at the moment. The Great Father needed this. He
keened for a very long time into Gyotin's fur like a cub feeling his first true
hurt.

Abruptly, Gyotin felt another set of arms surround them, and another...and
another. One Champion after another joined the standing hug-pile until they were
all enfolded. They stood like that for several full minutes as Daar sobbed.

"We love you, Our Father." Speaking was abject agony but Gyotin said it through
a pained growl. "Your *people* love you. Please..."

Daar finally let him go, wheezing a little, and the group separated. Champion
Novi of Openpaw laid a concerned paw on Gyotin's back.

"I heard at least a pair of ribs shatter in there," he said to Gyotin. "Let's
get you to the clinic."

Gyotin looked to Daar, who nipped him affectionately on the nose-a gesture
loaded with meanings of friendship, apologies, dominance, and more besides. "Go.
I'm breakin' everythin' I wrap my paws around lately..."

Gyotin allowed himself to be led away, trying *very* hard not to wheeze while
still within earshot of the massive Great Father. His stoicism lasted until he
got around the corner, and Novi helped him hobble along.

"You realize you're going to have to do something to make amends for striking
him," Novi said finally, as they got to the elevator.

Gyotin favored him with a an exhausted ear-wag of pain. "Yes. It'll be about as
much fun as this was, I have no doubt."

---

**Date Point: 14Y 6M 3D AV**

**Office of the Great Father, High Mountain Fortress, Northern Plains, Gao**

**Sister Naydra**

Naydra hurtled up the eternal staircase, only just stopping herself from
dropping to fourpaw. The message she'd received from the Great Fath...*Daar*...
was simple, direct, and to the point, and she could no more have ignored it or
put it off than she could have stopped her own heart from beating.

> Naydra,

> ~~U~~You were~~ere~~ right. I need ~~u~~you. Come to me at High Mountain~~e~~.

> Daar

She was almost to his quarters, perhaps a floor or two below, when she heard the
most awful noise. Daar, she knew, had a booming, carrying voice. *Everyone* knew
that; all one had to do was watch a video of him to see how far his powerful
bass voice would travel, and in person it was even more true. She also knew that
Daar, unfortunately, liked to sing.

It wouldn't have been so bad, if it was something he was even remotely good at,
and if he didn't have a tendency to break into *basso profundo* howls at
inappropriate moments. No, the real tragedy was the way he went looking for the
right notes and managed to find all of them except the right ones. That, in a
way, was almost...impressive.

As she came up the final flight of stairs and around the corner, she began being
able to make out words.

*"oooowwooowowowoooooOOOOOOO DREEEEEEAAAAAAMWEAVAHOOOOOoooo... I believe*
*yooooowoooo can get me through the niiiiiiiighhht owwwoooooooooOOOOOO...."*

The Stoneback guards at the top of the stairs had a profound look of suffering
on their normally-impassive faces, wincing visibly every time the massive voice
within started a new verse. Naydra's sensitive hearing also picked up the thump
of a rollicking bass line under all of it from an unfamiliar instrument.

Definitely not Gaoian music...and probably not from a Gaoian music player,
either, since their music art tended strongly to favor their hearing in higher
ranges than, she was pretty sure, whatever this Human noise was.

Father Regaari's desk sat empty, its usual occupant having undoubtedly taken the
excuse of something far more important happening somewhere, anywhere else. The
guards, however, were stuck where they were. Naydra favored them with a friendly
set to her ears and made her way up the stairs the rest of the way.

"Go on in, Sister. He left orders with us that you, and only you, were to be
allowed past this point, and for you to come in as soon as you got here," one of
them said.

"I'll just see if I can get him to calm down a little, shall I?" Naydra asked.
"How long has this been going on?"

"Since early morning, Sister. He came back from somewhere with Father Regaari
helping him carry a bunch of boxy old human stuff that he got somewhere. Regaari
left, and he spent the next couple of hours settin' everything up, and
then...well, this."

"This ain't as bad as the last stuff he was listenin' to, though, Brother. If I
hear that *'Stayin' alive, stayin' alive'* song one more time..." said the other
guard. The first one grunted in agreement.

"Anyway. You best go in, Sister. He's waitin' for ya."

Naydra gave the guards a grateful nod, and went in, closing the door behind her.

---

**Date Point: 14Y 6M 3W 5D AV**

**Grand Commune, Tiritya Island, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**Mother Ginai**

The first to take up formal residence in the first excavated halls of the Grand
Commune had had to be drawn by lottery. With so many wanting, needing entry, any
kind of choice would have devolved quickly into arguing and wrangling over who
needed it more. It was the only fair way.

"Fair", Ginai decided, completely *fucking* sucked, using the Human terminology
she'd learned a few weeks before even in her own head. That didn't detract from
the fact that it was the only way to do it ethically, but it still sucked, maybe
more than anything that had ever sucked before.

The lottery "winners" and their associated cubs, got to move in, now that the
first full level of the Grand Commune had been excavated. Below, the dig
continued unabated, and above ground, buildings were already rising into the
sky. Supplies flowed from multiple places on Earth and from Gao, and the first
of several industrial desalination plants had been installed on the lowest level
designated for it. Now, the diggers were digging in both directions at once,
excavating at an unbelievable rate.

It was remarkable what could be accomplished with highly aggressive technical
knowhow and a truly *motivated* bottomless source of labor. The latest addition
had, at the Females' insistence, been a factory complex for manufacturing
cement, concrete, and rolling out construction-grade rebar steel. Some of their
Human advisors had balked a little at that one, observing, correctly, that it
was actually easier in some ways to simply jump the materials in, but the
Females had stood their ground on it. This was to be a Female Commune, built by
Females, using as much of their own labor, materials, and what a Human engineer
had aptly called "sweat equity" as possible.

"Good morning!" she greeted the crowd. The rumbling of talk died out except for
a few *very* excited cubs that kept having to be shushed by their Mothers.

"Just over six months ago, our world was attacked, our lives as we knew them
utterly destroyed, and everything we knew upended. We discovered new friends,"
she motioned to the group of Humans standing off to the side. "--and we
discovered who our truest allies are. Through all of it, we've managed to
preserve our people, our heritage, and our future."

"This was not our world when we came here six months ago. I say we have well and
truly made this corner of the universe our own, and from here, we will preserve
the future of our people and the strength necessary to see the awful tasks
before us through."

"The task of our Males is well underway, with the creation of the Grand Army. We
Females have a different task-to breed continuing strength, to teach the
generations to come, and above all, to see to our *own* strength."

"I welcome you all to our new home, the Grand Commune."


*~fin*
