---
title: Going Without
---

# Going Without

\

\

::: chapter
**DATE POINT: 5Y 2M 1D AV**

**ARK STATION, SANCTUARY SYSTEM, ILRAYEN BAND**

**JENNIFER DELANEY**

It was technically sunrise when Jen returned to the orbital
hab--station, but the weak light of Sanctuary's sun struggled to cut
through the thick, nitrogen--rich atmosphere of the single life--bearing
world in the system. It was, at first glance, an extremely inviting
world, with a broad expanse of ocean that covered nearly ninety--seven
percent of its surface, and a surface temperature that bordered on
balmy, but it was definitely not the kind of place you wanted to visit.
Nearly twice the mass of Earth with an atmosphere four times as thick,
the ocean planet was definitely better looking from a distance. These
faults notwithstanding, it had proven an incredibly valuable source of
atmosphere and water for the ancient hab--station, once they'd restored
basic power, and it was self--evident why the Yarmyek had selected it as
their preferred build site.

Less evident was why they'd never gotten around to using it; by derelict
standards, the place had been practically pristine when they had
arrived, as though it had spent all those years waiting just for them.
Jen and, to a lesser extent, Darragh had both found this somewhat
creepy, and reminiscent of a horror movie, although even their most
thorough investigations had yet to turn up any monsters.

Delighted that something was going right for once, Chir had immediately
claimed the station as his new base of operations, but Jen was unable to
shake the sense of vague, cinematic peril, and had soon opted to return
to her mission. Keffa had already finished docking the Devastator by the
time Jen entered orbit, and was physically checking over the outer hull
when Jen exited their newest acquisition, a light--blue freighter styled
as the Broken Blue.

"Never thought I'd see any of us flying a freighter of all things,"
Keffa remarked as Jen walked towards her. "The exchange was as bloodless
as you hoped?"

"They were very compliant," Jen replied, turning back to consider the
freighter from a distance. "Once they realised I was a human, anyway."

Jen had been looking forward to a life without piracy or high crimes,
but the world was more complicated than that, and did not make things
easy for those with no money. Unfortunately she had already learned that
crime paid very well, and so it was only natural that the group returned
to theft as a means of ship acquisition. It was not ideal, and yet it
had allowed them to expand their fleet to six fully functioning
starships in a matter of months.

"What about it then?" Keffa asked, trusting Jen to know what she was
talking about.

"About what?" Jen asked, feigning ignorance.

Keffa rolled her eyes. "Agwar. You must have scanned it on your way
back, yeah? Any change?"

Jen sighed. "Only what we predicted. Space is still completely bonkers
out that way, but the weirdness is receding and the whole system is
slowly moving out of that bad patch. I think we'll see it clear on
schedule."

"Pity," said Keffa. One of the reasons they'd adopted Sanctuary was the
proximity to Agwar. Aside from the possibility that Adrian was alive in
here, Jen still felt she needed to try and save the place. "Darragh's
back as well."

Jen nodded. "On time, that's good."

Given ownership of a light, one--man scout, Darragh had been tasked with
collecting data on the other Deathworlds in the area, and returning with
all the information that could be gathered from orbit. Thus far he'd
uncovered eight Deathworlder civilisations capable of being detected
from space, and had determined that only two of them were compatible
with the galactic community. The others, intelligent though they might
be, had far more in common with their V'Straki engineer and were thus
more likely to cause serious problems. Askit had remarked that maybe the
Hierarchy had some kind of *point*, and Jen found herself unable to
disagree; the galaxy would simply be a better place if some of those
species never made it into space. "No more psycho--pandas to haunt us?"

Keffa shook her head. "He already talked to Chir, but I was listening
in: more primitives, and still no sign of the fucking Hierarchy."

Jen spat on the deck at the mention of their name, giving a
less--than--subtle indicator of how she felt about the invisible
galactic menace. She knew that hoping to find them was foolish, but
after that mess on Agwar, and the news about San Diego, she was itching
for another fight, and their continued absence left her angry and
confused. That was the weirdest part; in her opinion they should be
everywhere, shutting down Deathworlder civilisation with deadly force,
but it seemed as though they'd almost entirely withdrawn from the 'Band.
Whether or not that had anything to do with the San Diegan crater was
yet to be determined, but Jen guessed they'd redeployed their forces to
focus on Earth.

"So what's the next step?" Keffa asked after a lengthy silence, breaking
it only as the two of them entered the administrative hub at the end of
the central promenade. They had been surprised to discover the station
was built with a strong sense of natural aesthetics in mind, and the
streets were filled with places clearly intended for gardens of some
variety, rather than the patches of bone--dry dirt that currently filled
them. One day, if they stuck around, the vision of a gardened
hab--station might come to fruition, but until then it only increased
the austerity of the place.

Xayn happened to be entering the building at the same time, weighed down
under a coil of power conduit, but stopped to answer the question as
though it had been directed at him. "I will run this conduit from the
ships to a power junction to help boost the energy stores. Then we
should be able to re--activate the fabricator."

Keffa stared at him long enough that it made *Jen* feel uncomfortable on
Xayn's behalf, although it clearly didn't have the same effect on the
Saurian, who gave her the V'Straki rendition of a thumbs--up. Jen was
fairly sure that Askit had taught him that move, and only because he'd
found it terribly amusing to watch other people suffer through.

"I was talking about the Deathworlds," Keffa informed Xayn once they'd
reached peak--thumb. "Jen's mission was to map them out for human
occupation, but it seems like they're all either occupied or a total
fucking mess."

The V'Straki cocked his head, an expression that indicated considered
thought, and appeared to purr. They had eventually learned that this is
what it looked like when he was having an idea he liked. "Given time,
the Hierarchy would destroy these Deathworlds. Why not take these
creatures and press them into willing service against their would--be
slaughterers? The Hierarchy would never expect it... our victory would
be glorious!"

Xayn burst out laughing with the 'kah kah kah' sound that was about as
full--bellied as he could manage. Keffa raised an eyebrow as she traded
glances with Jen, and shrugged. "It's got a certain poetry to it."

"Poetic, maybe," Jen conceded, "but we'd surely develop a certain fame
if they heard about it back on Earth. Do you have any idea how many
people would be jumping up and down about 'cultural contamination', or
'Western Imperialism' if we started in on that? Christ... just thinking
about it does my head in."

Keffa shrugged again. "We can just tell 'em to go fuck themselves. What
would Adrian do?"

Jen rolled her eyes. "Doing whatever the fuck we feel like isn't a good
way forward, Keffa. Agwar is still totally inaccessible to us, and I've
not a doubt in my mind where the blame for that can be placed."

"So we're not assembling a hodge--podge, mixed--species team of
questionable characters?" asked Darragh, stepping in from the stairwell.
"Shame... I was looking forward to calling myself Starlord."

Xayn regarded him and nodded. "It would fit."

"You were eavesdropping?" Jen asked, before gesturing towards Xayn. "And
why does he know it fits?"

"First of all, you're both being very mean," Darragh replied, looking
pointedly at the two of them, "and I got him some 'top shelf human
entertainment' on my last trip to a proper station."

"It was mostly mating videos," Xayn noted. "I have learned that females
receive many favours in exchange for such rights, along with many other
useful things."

Darragh reddened slightly at the looks he received from his fellow
humans. "Yes, well, they didn't have a table of contents, and I was too
stupid to check it first. Anyway, I don't see how I'm eavesdropping when
you've all got the volume dialled up. I was just having a chat with the
boss about how lonely it is around here."

Jen frowned. It was hard to know whether Darragh was talking about the
general sense of isolation---the hab--station was clearly intended for
more than the six of them---or Chir's emotional state after they'd
returned time--cloned Layla back to where she'd called home. It had been
there that he'd discovered the version he knew and cared about had never
survived the return journey. He hadn't taken it well, and Layla had
taken it even worse, and things had just settled into a simmering pot of
emotional turmoil ever since. Yet another reason to keep going out and
exploring.

"And?" Keffa prompted. "I assume you're going somewhere with this
story?"

"And he agreed that we should be looking at allowing settlers," Darragh
finished. "We've got a lot of space, and a lot of work to do, but
there's a lot of money to be had out here if you know how to get it, and
opportunity to put the screws on the Hierarchy if we're careful."

"And you happen to know how to make a lot of money?" Keffa asked
sceptically. The judgement was reasonable; it was painfully clear that
Darragh had never made a lot of money.

"No, but I know somebody who does," Darragh replied.

"Yes," Xayn said, bobbing his head in agreement. "Human males will often
pay in exchange for mating rights."

Keffa looked like she was about to hit the Saurian, and Jen felt much
the same way. Darragh had the good sense to take a step back, and picked
the right side. "Xayn!" he exclaimed. "You can't say that sort of thing
to women! They're not prostitutes!"

Somehow Darragh's defence actually made Jen even more annoyed. "And
we're not going to be, either!" she added sharply. "I'm fairly sure he's
talking about the Corti."

"Yes," Darragh confirmed, looking relieved. "I mean... obviously he's a
notorious criminal, but so is everyone else here. He's also a notorious
criminal who can make our station legitimate."

Jen had trouble seeing that happening. "And the Dominion will just
forget about all our crimes? It seems unlikely. As does the chance that
people will actually come to live here."

"That was my view as well," said Chir, emerging from behind Darragh and
startling him in the process. "But there is an opportunity here as
well."

"Which is?" Jen asked.

Chir gestured to... well, everything. "Ark may be difficult to get to,
and it may be remote, but we do have unfettered access to Deathworlds
and a large number of other locations that do not officially exist. You
named this place, I recall, after a mythological water--vessel tasked
with preserving the existence of life on Earth, just as you want to
preserve these Deathworlders against the Hierarchy. The six of us can't
manage that alone, and I'm not inclined to start abducting primitive
specimens of... whatever. We need to look at other options. I think I've
found some."

They waited, allowing Chir his moment of dramatic pause. He eventually
broke into a cunning grin, bringing to mind a black--furred fox, and
continued. "It may not be quite what you're proposing---bringing
primitive creatures into our group could only end in disaster---but it
does fall in line with your intent. This station was built by the
Yarmyek League in the days of their decline, far out of their claimed
space. It is my belief---although it is merely an educated guess---that
they had intended this place as a safeguard against their final
collapse. They never had the opportunity to use it, but that doesn't
mean we can't see out their purpose. There are no fewer than four
species in late--stage decline in the galaxy, and it is my intention
that we should save them, by force if necessary."

"You think the Hierarchy is behind that as well?" Keffa asked, arching
an eyebrow. "Have we seen evidence of that?"

"We know that they can control people through implants," said Chir, "and
these species lean heavily on them. I am tasking you, Keffa and Darragh,
with getting us a breeding population of each."

"What about their implants?" Keffa asked. "If the Hierarchy gets wind of
what we're up to..."

"Askit will be joining you," he revealed. "He has almost completed his
anti--Hierarchy cyber--solution, so you'll leave once he's got it
working across the entire station. He can install a local copy on the
ship while you're travelling."

"So ideally, they won't know a thing," Darragh concluded. "That's a good
plan. Simple, and workable, and these colonists are unlikely to want to
run off somewhere else when they realise what's actually been
happening."

Jen nodded along. "And what about me? I've got work to do with my
surveys. That's got to be done if I'm to remain in the good books with
Earth... especially with what happened on Agwar."

Chir shook his head. "You'll need to delay that. I'm aware that Xayn and
I are an unstoppable force, but it's a big station and we could use
another set of hands in getting it ready. There'll be a need for more
water, more food, and more raw materials. I think you can get most of
that down on the planet, but you may need to go further afield."

It would *all* be further afield. Jen had been down to the planet
exactly once, and had decided against ever going back. A human could
survive there, but they would be far from happy with the combination of
heavy, humid air, blasting winds, and mountainous, crashing waves. Going
elsewhere would be less convenient in the short term, but there was
plenty of water--ice floating around if you knew where to look.

"Easy done," she replied. It was likely to be laborious, unforgiving
work even with the help of technology, although those tools were the
only thing that made it a one--person job in the first place. Even so,
it seemed like it was more suitable for someone with Adrian's build, and
not a slip of an Irish girl, even if she did figure herself strong for
her size. Yet another reason to wish he was still amongst them, rather
than stuck in some kind of persistent spatial anomaly. The best she
could hope for was that, instead of getting into his usual amount of
trouble---or being killed in an exploding ship---he'd been able to find
a group of Agwarens and convince them he was some kind of deity. After
her own turn at it, there was a circularity to the concept that seemed
to fit nicely, and made the fact that they'd abandoned him seem a little
less terrible.

⁂

**THE DASTASJI, UPPER TROPOSPHERE OF UNNAMED TERRESTRIAL PLANET**

**Kama**

Shift change was always welcome, provided it was your shift that was
ending. That was not the case for Kama and his team, who'd spent the
last day--cycle preparing for their deployment to the planet, so that
the costly mistakes of others could be learned from. There was a reason
that they'd established a ground camp and kept the Dastasji drifting
amongst the clouds, and it had nothing to do with tactics; Kama had
grown up in the jungled southlands of the continent, and life had been
harsh, but there'd never been anything like what he'd seen in this
place. With its aggressive vegetation, and psychotic giant fauna, the
planet was nightmare enough, but the enemy had raised an army of bizarre
creatures that were well adapted to the environment, and that didn't
even cover the primitives whose tactics were sufficient to warrant
wariness. Then there was the other thing, the *predator*, and that alone
was reason to employ the nuclear option from orbit. Unfortunately,
without the systematic annihilation of the whole planet, they could
never be sure the problem was solved. Drones, along with boots on the
ground, was the only solution likely to yield results.

He looked around at his team of red--chips as they checked their
equipment one last time before the 'drop. It was how they kept their
focus on the job, and off the awful dread of what was to come. As the
sole survivor of his previous expedition, Kama had been selected as
guide for his next, under the direct command of Squad Leader Razen, but
there was no distracting himself from the memories of his last journey
to the planet. He was therefore the first to stand to attention when
Razen stepped into the excursion chamber.

Razen nodded to him before taking his place at the front of the room.
"We have been given the go--ahead," he announced. "Drop is in \[five
minutes\]. Everything is loaded into the pod?"

He received the affirmation from all twelve members of his expeditionary
force, and indicated that this was as he expected. "We are to receive
our briefing on the surface. Get locked into your seats."

He stepped aside to allow Kama and the others the room needed to file
into the drop pod and take up a position on one of the troop stations.
Kama took his seat and drew the belts into place---mostly unnecessary
unless the kinetics failed---before connecting the weapons--feed to his
visor. Sensing that the connection had been made, the visor
automatically switched from augmented reality to full immersion, giving
Kama the sensory input provided by his designated cannon. The weapons
systems were, for the most part, fully--automatic, and the drop--pod was
heavily gunned so that when it made its descent the enemy would suffer
an unrelenting cannonade. With the typical V'Straki mistrust of
automated technology, each member of the crew could take over any number
of the guns at any time. It wasn't something that Kama had ever needed
to do, outside of training, so for the most part he treated the
experience as a particularly vivid overview of the situation below.

If not for this system, he would never have noticed the drop pod
beginning to fall away from the Dastasji. In line with standard practice
he tested taking control of his designated turret and returning it to
automatic operation, after which he settled in for the rest of the drop.
For a long while the clouds formed an unbroken floor of white below
them, followed by a few moments of opaque grey, and then the familiar
viridian landscape burst into view. The thick forest swept outwards in
every direction, deceptively peaceful from above, while Threshold---the
name of their operational base---lay directly below, surrounded by a
circle of blackened terrain. It was the second such base; the original
had been a hasty construction intended for fact--finding missions, and
had been utterly overwhelmed by the rapidly growing vegetation.
Threshold was a permanent structure, an elevated, heavily fortified
construction that overlooked the burned wasteland. Expendable drones,
armed with burner--beams, roamed the designated area, ensuring that
nothing---flora, fauna, or enemy combatant---could cross. Thus far it
had been greatly successful, but it remained the only success for the
operation.

The rapid drop slowed only at the last moment as kinetics fired off,
raising a whirl of dust from the open ground inside the compound. The
drop--pod for the previous team shot upwards at the exact same moment,
thereby completing the exchange.

"We are down," Razen reported. It wasn't strictly necessary---the
computers could communicate without issue---but it was an extra
precaution against alien interference with the computer systems.

The visor feed cut out, and Kama unplugged along with everyone else,
proceeding in single--file out of the drop--pod and heading towards the
briefing room; there'd be no rest for them until they'd finished their
first day mission.

Razen was last into the room, and entered in the company of Ground
Commander Ekkel, who looked them over appraisingly as he took up
position at the lectern.

"Welcome to Strife," Ekkel began, as he had when he'd greeted Kama's
first team; someone had come up with the name on the first deployment,
and it had stuck. "For some of you this will be your first deployment.
For others"---he looked at Kama---"it will be a return to a nightmare.
You will all have heard stories... they do not do justice to the
reality. It is vitally important that you all remain on high alert when
outside these walls, and keep your atmo--filters engaged---the whole
planet has been infected by some sort of extreme bio--weapon, and
everything you meet will be as aggressive as it is big and hungry."

He turned to Razen, who proceeded with the briefing from there. "We have
been tasked with a sweep of Sector Six. We know the area is inhabited by
two tribes of primitive sapients, but they have also been infected, and
are to be exterminated on sight. There are several major crash--sites in
sector six, none of which have yet been mapped, let alone cleared. Our
objective is to clear the nearest crash site at Point Aleph."

"Other known hostiles in the area include the forces of the Artificial
Intelligence," Ekkel continued, switching the vid--screen to display
multiple images of a large, bug--like creature that reminded Kama
strongly of the Igraens. "You are the first force to know of this, as
Medician Takkid has only just given us the confirmation, but there is a
clear genetic link to the Igraens. We believe this may indicate a
relationship between our quarry and the Igraen Alliance, so be careful."

"They are heavily armed, and are modified with advanced weaponry of
unknown design," Razen resumed. "Autopsies back up theories formed from
their observed behaviour: they function as though they are a hive mind."

Kama raised his hand, and waited for Razen to acknowledge him before
speaking. "Can that be used against them? If they are in communication,
it must be possible to disrupt that communication."

Razen and Ekkel traded a glance.

"That is our hope," Razen confirmed. "We are still waiting on the
engineers to produce a working dampener."

The image switched to another, this time an autopsy of some kind of
beast, with a particular focus on the skull. Where there should have
been a brain, there was something else, and the sense of revulsion ran
through all present.

"These are also derived from the Igraen gene--pool," Razen continued
with undisguised disgust. "A parasite. It consumes the brain to control
the body."

The picture switched once more, this time to the autopsy of a V'Straki
trooper. Kama recognised the face of Rekt, who'd gone missing on the
first day of his previous expedition. Once again there was no brain,
only the same hideous creature. Razen waited for the murmurings to
settle before he continued. "We are *not* immune to their predations.
This trooper was identified as Rekt, son of Vadin, and the parasite was
able to trick the guards into believing it was still our trooper.
Thankfully our genetic scanners made up for their error, or the
infiltration would have gone unnoticed. All of us undertake daily
blood--scans while on--base, as well as when we check--in."

"No exceptions," Ekkel added, although Kama couldn't imagine anybody
refusing after what they'd just seen. Making it explicit, however, meant
that he had just given himself the authority to immediately execute
anyone who disobeyed.

"Some of you will have heard about another creature," Razen continued.
"Let me assure you that you have enough to worry about without giving
credence to rumours. There is no reason to suspect that there is any
such thing as a 'predator' in the area. Remember that we V'Straki are
the strongest species to evolve on a high--threat world, and that we
alone have access to advanced tactical equipment. Our enemy is a
rampaging eco--system and the desperate remains of an Artificial
Intelligence, and provided we remain vigilant we have nothing to fear."

Ekkel nodded, switching the vid--screen off. "Assemble in the yard.
Except you, Trooper Kama. You remain with us for a moment longer."

Kama hissed out a sigh as he watched his fellow expeditionary troops
exit the briefing room, many of them casting suspicious glances back at
him as they left. When he turned back he found Razen and Ekkel far
closer, and Razen gripped him by the shoulder with a vice--like grip.

"I am aware of your... encounter on your last visit," Ekkel said. "You
met it... the predator creature."

"I did," Kama confirmed, unsure what this was about. He'd been given a
full debriefing upon his return, and hadn't held anything back.
"Briefly."

Ekkel looked down at his data--pad. "You said it threw a piece of metal
at you, then told you 'the next one would be coming a lot faster'?"

"Ah, yes," Kama said, clearing his throat. The retelling of the
encounter had seemed ridiculous, especially when the creature hadn't
even looked physically formidable, but the fact was that it had also
just killed two of his fellow red--chips with a *sharp rock*, and Kama
had dropped his gun. "I took it as a request to leave."

"It spoke in V'Straki?" Razen asked for verification. "Without the use
of a communicator?"

"Yes," said Kama, "but with mushy pronunciation."

"It didn't give you its name?" Ekkel pressed.

Kama shook his head. "We did not converse further. May I know what this
is about?"

Razen looked to Ekkel, who briefly hesitated, then nodded his approval.
Razen paused a moment, as though trying to find the words. "The most
recent Expeditionary force eliminated a group of primitives. The
primitives had a universal translator with them, and were able to talk
to them."

Kama cocked his head to the side; that was advanced technology, far
beyond what a backwater world was capable of producing, and there was no
good reason that it should have recognised V'Straki. "Was there an
explanation?"

"They claimed it was a trade--good from a strange, white--skinned
creature," Ekkel told him. "The description matched yours, but they were
able to give a name: Adrian Saunders."

Kama shook his head in ignorance; the name meant nothing to him.

"The Artificial Intelligence mentioned the name to our illustrious
Shiplord," Ekkel explained. "It implied that our escape from the anomaly
was somehow the intention of that individual, although we had no further
knowledge at that time. Currently we believe it is an alien of immense
power, responsible for freeing us and then causing the enduring spatial
disruption that traps us here, though we do not know the nature of its
association with the Artificial Intelligence."

A feeling of dread crept over Kama, and not merely because the
explanation suggested he'd escaped some kind of insane, god--level
entity. The mere fact that it was being explained to him did not bode
well. "Why tell me all this?"

"Because in the event that we encounter him, *you* are going to be in
command," Razen replied. "It will be your task to try and convince him
to help us slay the Artificial Intelligence. We think it might feel
kindly towards the natives, so perhaps you can arrange an understanding
that they will be safest if our work is completed quickly."

"I thought you just said the predator was not in Sector Six?" Kama
noted, glancing between his two superiors.

"That was a lie," Ekkel replied flatly. "Morale would be destroyed if
they expected the predator. Ignorance is better."

Previously, Kama would not have agreed to that. He would have protested,
stating that it was always better for troopers to know what they were up
against, so that they could pick their tactics ahead of time. This time,
however, he understood the point: that in this world full of nightmares,
the most terrifying thing knew who and what they were. Conversely, the
most they knew about it was its name; somehow that didn't seem like a
fair match.

⁂

**The Shelter, Sector Six, Agwar Crash Zone**

**LAPHOR METMIN**

It was easy to hear the Deathworlder return along the corridors; his
gait was readily recognisable, and he moved through the dark ruins with
an understanding of where he was going, so Laphor was ready with lantern
and decontaminant when he arrived in the room set aside for that
purpose. Like the rest of her mercenaries, she'd retained her vacuum
suit---albeit with several patches that made it unsuitable for actual
hard vacuum---to protect her against micro--organisms whenever they
needed to interact with the outside world, or with the one of their
number actually capable of both going out into it and coming back. The
crashed Hunter cruiser, burned and broken, provided substantial
protection for everyday purposes, and Adrian had even gotten some of the
lights and doors working on a separate circuit, thereby creating 'the
Shelter', but they still needed food, water, and a way off this shitty,
void--damned planet.

"You're later than you said," was Laphor's greeting as the human stepped
into the room. "Thought you might be dead."

He grinned at her like a wild thing, and she wondered if perhaps this
planet's madness was rubbing off on him. Rather than a retort, he pulled
out a bag weighed down with vegetable matter---enough for eight local
days amongst the mercenaries---and dropped it on the floor between them.
Then he stripped down, stood there, and presented himself for
decontamination.

Laphor acted without hesitation, activating the gas device that scrubbed
everything it touched of dangerous bacteria. It wasn't supposed to be
used on living beings, but Adrian hadn't known that when he'd used it
the first time, and although it turned his exposed skin pink it
apparently only made him tingle. That may have had more to do with the
deadening of his nerves than actual Deathworlder resilience, but either
way it didn't seem capable of doing him lasting harm, and it needed to
be done if the rest of them wanted to keep on living.

The mist cleared quickly, after which the Human Disaster re--clothed
himself in the tattered remnants of his hardened vacuum suit and
scratched at his hairy neck. "I tell you what, I need a fucking shave
and then some."

"I've never understood that about you," Laphor replied. "Why remove hair
that's naturally there?"

He shrugged. "One of life's great mysteries, I guess."

Grabbing up the food supplies, he followed her into the interior of the
Shelter where hungry mercenaries sat waiting. They eyed Adrian briefly,
but their eyes were destined for the hefty bundle he was carrying.

"Finally," grumbled Clor. "We thought you might be dead."

"You'd be surprised how often I get that," Adrian replied, putting the
pile in between them all and grinning as they snatched up everything
they could stuff in their mouths. "Rarely turns out well for those who
say it."

Clor paused mid--bite, taking his meaning. "Sorry... just, it gets to
you, being cooped up in here. We're thankful."

"Why *are* you late?" Laphor asked. "Run into more trouble with the
natives, or was it more Hunters?"

"I was keeping an eye on some V'Straki jackboots," he replied grimly.
"They hit an Agwaren village south--west of here, and executed them
all."

"They're savages," Laphor reminded him. "Not like the ones you've met
previously."

"They're sick," Adrian corrected. "They didn't used to be like this, and
they're not monsters. When I met Xayn I had the feeling that maybe the
great V'Straki empire might not be the friendliest lot, but this has
confirmed that in spades."

Laphor knew that, for whatever strange reason, the Deathworlder took
extreme exception to people killing other people based on species,
especially to the point of wiping out groups of them. In the wider
galaxy, that was often a factor of war, but Adrian had such *specific*
words for it---genocide and xenocide---that Laphor wondered if maybe
humanity had dealt with the matters in its past. Either way it pissed
him off, and it was a good thing that he only stayed with them for brief
intervals between supply runs and reconnaissance.

"I'm surprised you didn't try and kill them all," Laphor replied simply.
Armed with primitive weapons in addition to his fusion blades, Adrian
was an extremely formidable force, but she hadn't been sure how he'd
fare against a properly armed group of Deathworlders. The answer had
proven to be 'extremely effectively', and there'd been no more V'Straki
groups trekking through their area for a while.

He grimaced. "Needed to get back to you."

"Thank you for that," she replied, genuinely grateful; she wasn't
ignorant that they'd be long dead without his help. "Are you going out
again to hunt them down?"

"No," he said, surprising her. "It'd be rough--going to catch up with
them, and their base is a fucking fortress like you wouldn't believe."

"You're still going out though?" she inferred; the better part of an
orbital cycle had taught her to spot his nuances, and that understanding
had made things a lot easier.

He nodded as she'd known he would. "There's probably some survivors...
even if they're only a few hunters who were out when the rest of the
tribe was getting murdered. They'll want to know what happened, and who
to blame."

"They won't attack you again?" Laphor asked. She'd not seen one of these
creatures personally, but Adrian's descriptions had her picturing a
massive, lumbering beast twice as large as him in every way. They'd
taken him for a monster at first sight, and had tried to kill him---by
his own admission, they were considerably stronger than him---but what
they had in muscle they'd lacked in speed, agility, and tenacity. Adrian
had come back bruised and bloody, but somehow alive, and until today the
natives had decided against further attacks. "They might think it was
you!"

He shook his head. "It's pretty fucking clear whose work it is, and
they're not dumb enough to miss those clues."

"Still..." Laphor began.

"Still," he continued, patting the hilt of his fusion sword, "I'll be
ready if they try anything stupid."

Laphor recognised the futility of further argument, and that would have
to be good enough. She took up one of the leaves, a thick and succulent
type that grew like plates jutting from the trunks of larger trees.
Sweet, nutritious, and full of water, they made an excellent snack, and
Adrian had even assembled a contraption intended to transform the
natural sugars into cleaning product. What he used it for she was
uncertain, but when asked how well it worked he'd replied 'fucking
great', and that had been the end of it.

With her own hunger satisfied, she turned to the terminal they'd
assembled from parts found around the crashed cruiser, and scavenged by
Adrian from other vessels nearby. It ran on a stripped--down computer
core, powered by the most basic of generators, and the vid--screen was
suspended by loops of power conduit. Laphor suspected that they couldn't
have done better if they'd *purposefully* built it to resemble how she
felt about her life.

"So," she said, bringing up the map of the area, "give us an idea of
what you saw."

Salvaged from the cruiser's records, the map was wildly out of date,
showing the forest and field that had existed just prior to the crash.
They'd marked in the locations of crashed ships, where the native tribes
were settled, and where Adrian had encountered V'Straki and Hunter
alike. To nobody's surprise he pointed at the southern settlement,
tapping the screen so that it swung gently back and forth until he
stopped it.

"There," he said, then moved his finger further south. "The V'Straki
moved off directly towards their base after finishing the job."

"What did they have with them?" Laphor asked. "Standard drones and
equipment?"

They'd already established that the creatures were well--resourced,
possessing access to surveillance and hunter--seeker drones in addition
to their own lightweight outfits. Adrian had killed a pair of them,
proving that the outfits were not intended to protect against a heavy
rock being slammed into the skull, but had forgone claiming any of it.
He had reasoned that they might be able to track it---a concern that
Laphor had not even considered until he'd mentioned it---and had
considered secrecy a better defence than a handful of weapons. That
argument, combined with how easily he'd overpowered the two V'Straki
soldiers, led her to agree.

"You should rest before you leave," she suggested. "Or at least have
something to eat."

He shook his head at the pile of food. "That's for you... I ate before I
got here. Rest, though..."

He looked towards the corridor that led into the area they'd claimed for
residence, seemed to suck on his teeth, and nodded. He'd looked
half--dead ever since they'd arrived, but somehow he'd kept on
going---part of that Deathworlder tenacity, no doubt---but there were
limits for even the Human Disaster, and the signs were all there.
"Yeah... that'd be for the best. It'll be night soon anyway."

He'd never explained that in full, but it was enough to know that he
didn't like his chances at night any more than the rest of them did. She
imagined that even when he was away for days at a time, he would always
find a place to hide in until sunrise. Hide only, though, because it
seemed like he saved sleeping for the safety of the shelter.

Watching him slouch off towards his sleeping chamber, Laphor wondered
how much longer they could all go on this way. Not long, she thought;
one way or another it would all inevitably come to an end.

⁂

**DATE POINT: 5Y 2M 2D AV**

**ADRIAN SAUNDERS**

Every day was a new opportunity. When Adrian had been a school--going
teenager, his homeroom had been practically immersed with signs saying
crap like that; 'every day is an opportunity to reach your goal', 'every
day is an opportunity to better yourself', and most untrue of all,
'every day is an opportunity for a happy ending'. The only happy endings
he was likely to see was the self--inflicted kind, but while he was one
part cynic he was also three parts pure stubbornness, and so the
struggle continued.

The bed was made of a pile of fabrics he'd reclaimed from a lot of
ruined chairs, and provided only barely enough comfort to allow sleep,
but he still stared at the ceiling for a long time before he decided to
present himself to the world; he knew that this was going to be one
particularly gruelling day, and there wasn't enough grog left in the
barrel to soften what was on its way.

"Good morning," he said as he stepped into the communal area, where most
of the mercenaries were busying themselves with mundane tasks or games.

Mando, one of the older mercenaries, looked him up and down and wobbled
his head in astonishment. "I have no idea how you manage to look worse
every day."

Adrian snorted. "Practice."

Mando clicked his amusement, and shifted a gadget across his bench with
a significant gesture. It was about the size of Adrian's hand, and
clearly a haphazard construction, but from the satisfied look in his eye
it was more than a pile of scrap. That was only to be expected from the
only other member of their group with a technical background, although
Mando's experience extended to improvising useful devices in the field,
and he'd apparently spent several years fighting street--to--street when
the Celzi Alliance had invaded his homeworld. "I have a toy for you."

Adrian took a seat across from him and picked it up for examination. "I
wasn't aware it was my birthday."

"I ripped it out of the last Hunter you dragged back here," he said,
confirming Adrian's suspicions about certain stains. "Well... it's the
personal cloaking field generator."

Adrian set it back down. "Won't work against the V'Straki," he said.
"Their drones will scan the tech before I can get close enough to make
use of it."

Mando smiled, and set down another device. "And here's the remote."

Adrian frowned and took it, giving it a brief experimental activation,
during which the table vanished from view, so that only the barest hint
remained of a camouflage field. He smiled back. "I like."

"I thought you might," he said. "From what you've said, they'll be able
to detect a camouflage field, but they wouldn't expect you to use it on
a decoy. It's just the sort of distraction you'd need to help you
escape, or... you know, slaughter them all to a man. Whatever you feel
like."

Adrian took them both, and deposited them into the carry--bag he never
let out of his sight. "Thanks. If everything goes to plan, I'll be back
in three days."

He nodded. "I'll have to check our schedule, but I think we'll still be
here. Oh... the Shipmaster wanted to remind you that you'll be wanting
another translator unit."

"Thanks for the reminder," said Adrian, and went to fetch a replacement
from the tech--stockpile they'd assembled of whatever he'd pulled from a
half--dozen wreckages. Lacking an implant, Agwarens would need the help
of an external device if they wanted to talk to him, and words were a
hell of a lot easier than bloodshed.

Giving Mando another nod as he exited the Shelter, Adrian carefully made
his way down the corridors with only the glow of a data--tablet for
light, only setting it down and turning it off when he reached the
section of the ship that was exposed to the elements. Here the damage
was most severe, but the vegetation had already begun to reclaim all but
the deepest shadow and the floor was spongy with decomposing plant
matter. Bugs the size of rats scuttled out of his way as he passed,
working his way to the external remnant where he stored his travelling
equipment. It was an easily sealed room that had somehow remained
intact, although everything around it had been utterly destroyed, and
with a door that could be opened just wide enough for a human to enter.
Inside was the body armour he'd made from bits of scrap, beaten into
shape with brute force and fitted with the help of reclaimed
poly--fabrics. It was more of a mess than a work of art, but it had
protected him when the Agwarens had made their first challenge, had
saved him from a few beasts, and it'd give the Hunters something extra
to think about; with his body still weakened from the nerve damage, he
needed every advantage he could find.

It did make the outside less tolerable, though. When he'd first come to
this world, this region had been covered with snow, but summer, coupled
with the extreme growth of vegetation, had produced a far more tropical
climate. Rain came often, and it fell heavily, slowing progress and
making life miserable even if the canopy shielded him from the worst of
it. Today was, fortunately, blessed with blue skies, and he hoped that
it would hold, for he'd like to reach the Agwaren settlement well before
darkness fell, and before returning natives could bury their dead and
move on.

The jungle itself made Adrian feel as though he'd entered a world of the
giants, where he was made tiny against an extreme backdrop. Youthful
trees towered above him, their trunks already on the scale of the giant
redwoods of North America, while groundcover flowed over the terrain
like a flood of green. The air was filled with the rich scents of soil
and moist vegetation, and resounded with a deep and varied cacophony of
creature--calls emanating from every direction. Under these conditions
it was normal to have the feeling of being watched---the small predators
of yesteryear now looked at him with hungry eyes---but it was a
universal rule that beasts feared flames, and those of the fusion--blade
were more than enough to dissuade all but the most motivated.

Proving that every day is an opportunity for an extra helping of
bullshit, Adrian slowed his pace. His skin pricked with an ancient
warning, and he gave his conscious mind the time it needed to catch up.
The rustle of vegetation shifting, and branches cracking under weight,
were the only other cue he needed to get the hell out of the way. He
sprang to the side, his hand instantly going to the hilt of the fusion
blade, and turned to find the snarling, spiked mound of reptilian muscle
where he had just been standing. He drew the fusion--blade without
further delay; this was a scavenger, a simple beast that must be truly
desperate to attack him, and desperation would make it dangerous. With
the help of the weapon, however, he would make short work of---

Locking eyes with it, he saw his mistake. An animal like this didn't
look at you with calculation, nor with barely disguised hate, and yet
all of that was clearly visible in its glare. There was more here than
the mind of a lizard, as made evident by the uncharacteristic glow of
warmth tracing lines in its scaly skull.

"I thought you motherfuckers were all dead," he told it, raising the
weapon more seriously. It tracked it with a wariness full of
recognition. "Guess I was wrong."

He almost expected it to come at him there and then, but it kept its
distance, circling him carefully, with neither willing to commit to the
first attack. It had understood him, he knew that much, because he'd
seen the look of shock that crossed its face, but losing that element of
surprise was all the more reason for it to cut and run. There was no way
for it to beat a fusion--blade---it had to know that---so there was only
one possible reason for it to stay: it was expecting help.

It didn't take extensive military training to spot the impending ambush.
There was only one place where it could expect to lure him into range of
heavier vegetation---a massive fallen tree that had been overtaken by
rot and the ground coverage. He played along, letting it draw him in,
keeping his eyes on it even as his ears and body listened to the world
around him. The one in front of him feinted, but Adrian was already
moving when the two others launched themselves from the top of the
decaying trunk. Whatever the first had thought would happen with its
feint, it certainly wasn't the solid punch to the face with a
metal--clad fist, nor the follow--up stab through the upper torso.

It spasmed in a silent, involuntary scream while death overtook it, and
Adrian flung himself aside as the newcomers landed. He was ready for
them, grinning like the apex predator he was, while surprise played out
across their reptilian features. The first didn't even have the chance
to move before the fusion--blade sliced its skull in half with a
steaming hiss, but the other was quicker to react.

⁂

With a screech of anger and surprising agility, it sprang at him with a
second, enormous lunge, hitting him with scrambling claws and a
salivating mouth full of hideous teeth. It had caught him off--guard,
and as it sank its claws into his body, it wrapped its spiked tail
around him, and it was all his could do to press the hilt of the blade
against that monstrous head. There was little doubt that, as they were,
it had a definite strength and weight advantage; adrenaline, however, is
one hell of a drug. Adrian roared in anger as the claws sank deeper,
lifting its weight into forward momentum and slamming it against the
jutting branches of the dead tree. He felt its bones crack and break,
and the gurgle of its pain, but it kept its grip and stared back with
pure, focused malice.

So much focus that it was undone; fixated as it was, it missed his
fingers snaking forth until they were already knuckle deep into an
eyeball and crunching into the creature that had taken the place of its
brain. It recoiled immediately, flailing in shock and releasing Adrian
in one movement, giving him the space to strike out with one final stab
of the fusion blade. It screeched as he skewered it through the chest,
but fell silent as he shifted his stance and sliced upwards through its
skull. Nervous system still twitching, it fell forward into a shuddering
heap, no longer a threat to anything.

Wounded, but knowing better than to leave this job half--done, he
returned to the first. It was still, but he knew that meant nothing, and
he spiked the blade through the skull to be sure. The jungle was
returned to its former ambience, but he gave all directions a long and
intense stare before taking stock of his injuries.

"Lucky when it counts," he murmured as he assessed them. They were
mostly shallow, and already beginning to clot, but would have hurt a lot
more if his nerves were still doing their normal job. An optimist would
tell you that every cloud has its silver lining, even the nerve damage
that would have killed a human less saturated with Cruezzir. He was also
lucky that the Corti Frontline implant still appeared to be working, or
these few cuts might have preceded a very nasty way to go.

He sat as the adrenaline passed, regarding the dead creatures and
considering how much of a problem they represented. A very *bad* one, he
decided, if they were infecting deathworlder wildlife, because that
meant there was no end to how far they might spread. The Cruezzir
infestation was bad, the V'Straki and Hunter threats were worse, but
this was on another level entirely. The others might, eventually, be
controlled, but there was no fix for this; it was probably a sign that
the whole planet was beyond saving. "Well, fuck."

He could only assume that the same fate had not yet befallen the
Agwarens---if it had, he doubted there could have been peace between
them after their initial misunderstanding---but it was probably only a
matter of time. Something else to warn them about, on top of the
*everything*. It'd already been a long list: telling them to make sure
everything was cooked in the hope it'd minimise their Cruezzir
consumption; giving them the heads--up on the still--living Hunters; and
of course alerting them about the aggressive alien soldiers and their
'skyship'.

The sooner he could get a 'skyship' of his own, the better. Until then
he was stuck, trying to survive, on what had become a mildly radioactive
jungle planet. At least that seemed to wreak havoc with sensors as well,
or the V'Straki would probably have found them all by now.

Rest over, he rose to his feet with a grunt, and pressed onward, more
alert than ever to the dangers of the forest.

⁂

**DATE POINT: 5Y 2M 3D AV**

**Dawsan Village, Sector Six, Agwaren Crash Zone**

**Aladyn**

The hunting party had known something was wrong in the village long
before they actually arrived. They would normally be met by the smells
of smoke---that of cooking fires and of the basic industries they'd
transplanted from the city---and the distant sound of work being done,
but the heavy, warm air smelled only of jungle, and carried only its
sounds. For this reason they had approached, not with the triumph of the
hunt, but quietly, and with spears and crossbows at the ready.

Even then he'd known it was far too late.

Kalen was the first to see it. "Over there," he pointed out in a low
voice. "Bodies."

He looked sick, and Aladyn could not blame him; he felt the same way.
This was what they all feared when leaving for the hunt. Dalon was, as
always, straight to the heart of the matter. "Any sign of those
responsible?"

The village was still, but they studied it intently for some time before
making a decision. "Seems not," Aladyn replied. "Let's go and take a
look."

There was a cold weight upon them as they entered the village, and a
flutter of wings as carrion feeders lifted into the air at their
approach. Angered by their desecration, Kalen let out a roaring shout to
send them on their way, while Dalon took a greater interesting in the
bodies themselves.

"They're all in one place," Aladyn observed. "Unarmed. This was an
execution... or a purge."

Dalon nodded. "This is nearly everyone... they were thorough, whoever
they were. We shall have to check the homes of those missing."

"In case they survived?" Aladyn asked doubtfully.

"To confirm that they're dead," Dalon replied.

Kalen was crouched over a pair of corpses, those of his wife and child,
shaking with sorrow. Aladyn looked to Dalon and silently suggested he
should go make that check now, on his own, while Aladyn saw to their
grieving comrade.

"We will burn them," Aladyn promised from a respectful distance.

Kalen turned and snarled. "We will *avenge* them!"

Aladyn nodded. "Yes, but first we will burn them. The carrion feeders
have had their feast, we shall not tolerate any further gluttony."

"Someone comes," Dalon hissed, hurrying back from his brief departure.
He planted his spear in the ground in front of him and once more
readying the crossbow. "Hear how the squawkers grow quiet."

Aladyn nodded; it was obvious from the way the jungle noise grew quiet
that something was approaching, and he followed Dalon's lead.

⁂

"They're *back*," growled Kalen, gripping his spear tightly. "This time
they will not---"

He was interrupted by the familiar, alien shout of the strange, pale
creature from the stars, although the alien words were accompanied by
the same speech in their own language. "Good day!? Is there anybody
still here?"

Aladyn exhaled and shared a glance with Kalen and Dalon that confirmed
they were of one mind: this wasn't the enemy they were looking for.

"Adrian Saunders," Aladyn replied, lowering his crossbow only enough to
indicate he wasn't *quite* ready to start shooting. "Why are you here?
As you can see, there is nobody left with whom to trade."

The village had initially identified the small creature as a threat,
given how similar it was to the supposed 'Chosen One', whose arrival had
brought only further horrors to the world, and they had therefore
attacked him immediately. It should have been easy---judging by
appearance, the pale creature had been small and weak---but there'd been
plenty of brave males injured before peace had been called. Adrian
Saunders, or 'Adrian' as he more frequently called himself, was fast,
nimble, and hit harder than Aladyn would have imagined, and the jungle
loved him.

"I can see that, yes," Adrian confirmed. "I thought you might want to
know who did it."

"The reptile men?" Dalon guessed. That had been Aladyn's assessment as
well, given the efficiency of the killing, but it was always good to
have confirmation.

Adrian nodded. "I've been around a bit, and it looks as though they're
doing a lot of scouting, and this isn't the first time they've done
something like this. Nor is this their first time in our neck of the
woods."

Aladyn nodded, though he'd been told nothing he didn't already know.
Adrian Saunders had already explained that he, the reptile men, and the
Crawlers were all originally from the stars, but had made it very clear
that he was not aligned with any of them. His knowledge of their origin,
and self--claimed relationship with the long--absent Lord Groddi, was
what had enticed the elders into accepting his offers of a trading
relationship; they had reckoned it would make them all safer in the long
run, but once again it seemed that age did not necessarily produce
wisdom. "That is not the only reason you're here."

He smiled broadly as though caught out in a lie and feeling no shame
whatsoever. "It's bad for all of us if they're running around here, and
I've got a real problem with people who think this kind of thing is
business as usual."

"They are *our* families to avenge," Kalen said in a low voice.

Aladyn considered the star--born creature carefully, and finally lowered
his crossbow the rest of the way. If nothing else, Adrian Saunders would
prove useful in helping them achieve their revenge. "If I see any sign
of betrayal, I will not fail in killing you a second time."

"I'm not in the habit of betraying allies," he replied simply, and
although there'd been no sign of fear, there was a subtle reduction in
tension as the others lowered their own crossbows.

"Help us here," Aladyn instructed, knowing what the magic fire--sword
could manage. "It will save us much time."

Adrian nodded and got to work. It was then that they noticed the wounds
on his sides, still glistening with that thick red blood. It looked very
much as though an overgrown skirrin had nearly gotten the better of him,
but given the subject that seemed highly unlikely. He saw them looking,
and grimaced. "There's something else we'll need to talk about when
we're done here. A new problem I'm not sure we can fix."

"One thing at a time," said Dalon bluntly, "and our dead come first."

Any day that starts with cleaning up the genocide of your home community
is going to be a rough one, but Adrian Saunders proved as useful as
Aladyn had hoped he'd be. Without his surprising agility, strength, and
magic sword, the task would have taken three further days, but they
finished halfway through the second.

They stood at the pyre, watching the dead burn, nursing the hollow
feeling that came with losing the last of what you held dear. Aladyn
might have wept, as Kalen did, but the whole thing was far too big, so
overwhelming that he could only experience it with a certain sense of
detachment. That might have been for the best, though; he could grieve
once he'd made justice, or simply find his rest in the last sleep.

Silence was observed throughout the rites, as it needed to be, and to
Aladyn's surprise, Dalon did an excellent job for leading the
observation. Finally, when each of the dead had been quietly set to
flame, they retreated to the communal hall that was normally full of
activity. Finding the best of what was available, Dalon poured them all
cups of arosia, carved up the salted meats, and set it out alongside
thick, heavy chunks of bread.

"Eat, drink, and remember what we have lost," he said as he took his own
seat, although it was mainly directed towards Kalen, who remained too
filled with his grief to do anything *but* remember what he'd lost.

Aladyn didn't suffer from the same malady---if anything he'd gladly
stuff himself so he'd have something to feel, even if it was just
physical discomfort---and heaped his plate with generous portions.

"My mind moves to matters of vengeance," Dalon said as he took his own
serving.

"Justice," Aladyn corrected. "This crime demands *justice*, not
bloodthirsty revenge."

"In this they are one and the same," Dalon replied.

They shared a sidelong glance at the small creature sitting beside them,
perhaps whether there might be some interjection of space--borne wisdom,
but it seemed that Adrian was more focused on his own meal. He'd said
little since his arrival, which was a notable and welcome change from
his previous visits; he had been respectful, and that had not gone
unnoticed.

"I recall another matter being mentioned," Aladyn noted, his mind
returning to the conversation of the previous day. "Is that not
correct?"

Adrian finished chewing a mouthful of meat, swallowed, and nodded
firmly; even from this, it was clear that it was a matter of importance.
"Probably the worst thing so far."

"I find that difficult to believe," Aladyn replied darkly.

"Fair enough," Adrian conceded. "I assume you know what a parasite is,
though?"

Once upon a time, that would have been an absurd question---gutworms and
leg--biters had been so commonplace that even someone from the stars
would have learned about them sooner rather than later---but Aladyn
hadn't seen them since the Change, and Adrian had arrived some time
after.

"We do," Aladyn confirmed.

"This will sound crazy," Adrian prefaced, although Aladyn could hardly
imagine a situation that was any crazier than what he was already
living, "but this type will eat your mind, and use your body for a
puppet."

Like the others, Aladyn laughed. "A body--stealer? Those are just
stories made up by parents wanting their children to do as they are
told!"

Adrian Saunders did not laugh. "Not anymore. They're in the animals, and
given time they'll be in the people, too."

Aladyn stopped laughing, as did the others; it was clear that he was
deadly serious. "How are they stopped?"

"Killing them individually isn't the problem here, it's the fact they
can spread to damned near everything," Adrian replied. "A big fuck--off
explosion nearly did the trick once, but I'm running a bit short on
those right now."

"I don't see how this changes anything," said Kalen. "We already know
who our enemy is. We already know our mission. If you expect us to stop
this---"

"There is no stopping this," Adrian interrupted. "The animals will go
first, then it'll be the people. I don't have a plan to stop it... not a
good plan, anyway, but maybe I can save a few lives if I can find a way
off--world."

Aladyn shared a glance with his fellow hunters. Dalon took a long drink
of his arosia, staring at the star--creature with that intense gaze of
his. "Our vengeance ties us here."

"Our *families* are here," Kalen added.

*Were here*, Aladyn thought, though he at least refrained from
correcting Kalen out loud. Either way, the very concept of abandoning
his entire world to some monster was not something that sat well with
him.

"Your revenge will get you killed," Adrian said flatly, "but I've had a
while to think this over, and I reckon you'll be able to help my plan,
if you're interested."

⁂

"We would have to hear it first," Aladyn allowed. Unlike Kalen he was
not so blinded by grief that he could not see the value in an ally like
Adrian Saunders.

"In brief, we take down some V'Straki soldiers, so that I can get enough
time to convince one that he should take me to his leader," Adrian
explained. "If I can get myself aboard their ship, I can try to figure
out the rest from there."

"That is not a plan," Dalon replied icily. "It is a very good example of
a complicated suicide attempt."

"It could come to that," Adrian admitted, "but I can't think of any
other way to get aboard that ship. This whole area is filled with
trashed technology, and even the Hunters---the Crawlers as you call
them---are showing up more often without their usual replacement parts."

Adrian had once discussed the Crawlers with the Elders, and Aladyn had
been privileged enough to listen in. They had come from the stars, much
as he had, but were monsters even there. They had replaced many of their
body parts with machines so amazing that they might have been magic,
just as his own sword was, but the same cause of the Change was also
forcing their natural bodies to restore themselves. This, he claimed,
was better for everyone, but Aladyn had his doubts. He had seen the
creatures only once, and from a distance, but even then he'd noted how
they moved as though they were of a single mind, and that alone made
them a threat to be taken seriously. Maybe there were only a few of
them, but they were a danger to any less coordinated force.

"Why is the sky--ship so important to you?" Aladyn asked. To him it was
the home of their enemy, and therefore something to be destroyed, but it
did not move from its position and it was far easier to strike the
lizards as they came to the ground. "Just because you could leave on
it?"

"Because it can save you, me, and a shitload of other people," he
replied. "It's my last option, and if you want anything more than a big
fuck--you to the V'Straki, then it's your last option too."

"The big fuck--you does sound good," Dalon mused, glancing towards
Kalen, "but... we were both soldiers, once, Aladyn, and we had the same
teacher. What do you think?"

It took a shared history, but Aladyn knew what his comrade was getting
at. Neither of them were common rabble like Kalen, but had been trained
in strategy as well as combat, and he could hear the old man's wisdom:
'choose your battles wisely'. In this sense it meant that the price of a
single battle could be the victory in a war they hadn't known they were
involved in. "What do you intend to do with the lizards if your plan
succeeds?"

"No fucking idea," Adrian replied, "but I can promise you they won't
love it."

⁂

**DATE POINT: 5Y 2M 4D AV**

**STARPORT THREE OF GAMLIS HOMEWORLD**

**ASKIT**

"It's cold out here," Askit complained as they stepped out of their
stolen, illicitly re--registered starship and into the third largest
starport on the planet. The Gamlis Homeworld was the last remnant of a
civilisation that had spanned thirty--seven worlds---albeit many in a
very minor capacity---and was still heavily populated in comparison to
other declining civilisations. It even retained its impressive
architecture, which favoured hued crystals more than most contemporary
species could enjoy, but it was supposedly maintained entirely by a
fleet of maintenance robots originally deployed before they entered
their final phase. Part of this maintenance should have included keeping
the starport at the settings recommended for minimal discomfort, but
evidently that was one guideline they'd abandoned for some time.

The cold did not bother the humans, and naturally they were just as
concerned about his comfort as one might have expected. "You're the one
who decided to forgo trousers," said Darragh. "Even though we keep
asking you to wear them."

"There are so many things wrong with that idea I don't even know where
to begin," Askit replied, rubbing his arms to generate some extra body
heat. "And in any case, Kefani is hardly wearing anything by human
standards."

"Shorts and a t--shirt are not 'hardly anything'," Darragh replied after
a brief visual study of Keffa. "If you want to swing your junk around in
starports, you're going to be wearing the consequences."

"Nice pun," Keffa replied, having ignored their conversation thus far.
"You know, this place is just amazing! So many crystals!"

"If you like that sort of thing," said Askit.

"My mother is big into 'healing crystals'," Darragh replied. "It's
actually a touch ridiculous, but she had a whole lot of them around the
house when I was growing up. Salt--lamps as well, to combat all the
'positive ions' and promote general well--being."

Askit stared at him. "You're saying that humans can heal in proximity to
crystal structures?"

"No, she's just off her tree," Darragh replied. "Did my dad's nut in, I
tell you."

Sometimes humans liked to have conversations for no other reason than to
hear themselves talk; this seemed to be one of those times.

"This place is a lot quieter than I thought it would be," Keffa noted as
they passed through the check in. "I mean... it's so big, you expect
activity."

"It *was* active," Askit replied, "before the Gamel fell into decline.
Now nobody comes here."

"I suppose that means there'll be no lines," Darragh joked, "so it
should be a quick check--in."

"There won't be a check--in," Askit replied. "You don't understand...
they're in their final phase, so they don't *care* about things like
that. They primarily care about whatever satisfies them in the moment."

"Must be nice," Darragh returned.

"If their machines didn't look after them, they would all be dead by
now," Askit snapped back. "Nobody comes here because, to the rest of the
galaxy, they are *already* dead."

They crossed a bridge at that moment, where a massive window revealed a
sweeping city--scape. It was clean, powered, and in good order, but
there were few signs of the inhabitants who supposedly lived there.
"Case in point."

"Lights are on, but nobody's home," Keffa intoned in hushed tones. It
sounded rhetorical, so Askit didn't bother answering; she was definitely
close to the mark, though.

"There's somebody home," Darragh replied, clearly not understanding
rhetoric. "We just need to find them."

"Easier done than said," said Askit, taking the lead. "They're all
fitted with bio--trackers for the medi--rescue systems. Our first step
needs to be the nearest hospital."

"They just let the government track them wherever they go?" Darragh
asked, aghast. This once more proved he became horrified at all the
wrong things.

"There is no government," Askit replied, weary of belabouring the point.
"They install a suite of implants without even considering what they
actually need. Given what we know, the Guvnuragnaguvendrugun are nearing
the same fate, and with our ridiculous reliance on technology, the Corti
are soon to follow."

"Oh," said Darragh, as understanding finally dawned. "How... do *you*
feel about that?"

Askit raised an eyebrow and stared at Darragh. "How do I *feel* about
the prospective extinction of my species?"

He at least had the sense to know when he'd asked something very stupid.
Surely even the worst criminal wouldn't want to see the complete
destruction of their own species. "Yeah... maybe forget I asked that."

A maintenance bot cruised past them, following the path indicated for
its use---an indicator intended for people, rather than the machines
that used them.

"That's a ship maintenance bot," Keffa noted as it passed. "I recall
rejecting the offer."

"System glitch?" Darragh asked, looking to Askit. "Or maybe someone else
just got here."

"I think it's more likely that we've just been subtly inspected," Askit
replied, staring after the robot. "I think we should go to the nearest
security room. Darragh, carry me while I work."

He pulled out his data--pad and started working, connecting to the
starport's local network and nearly instantly brute--forced his way
through its rather pathetic security systems. Darragh, grumbling, picked
him up and cradled him awkwardly as they hurriedly walked towards their
objective.

⁂

"Can't you walk while you do that?" he complained.

Askit ignored him, consumed with checking the logs of the robot
administrative system. It was, unfortunately, exactly as he had
suspected---something had ordered the ship maintenance bot to take that
route, and it wasn't an automated process---and now the long--dormant
security force was coming back online. This response was the kind of
thing you might expect when an actual invasion was going on, not when
three criminals paraded themselves through the empty halls of a derelict
starport.

"Less talking, more running," he advised. "There's an army of security
drones on their way."

"What did you do?!" Keffa demanded, even as she picked up the pace. "We
were just---"

"Identified by our enemy, most likely," Askit finished for her. "These
aren't automated processes, something is definitely giving the orders
here."

"Can't you do something?" Darragh asked. The whine of an approaching
army of drones had become audible, produced by the mix of hover--drones
and wheeled--drones that normally augmented a flesh--and--blood security
force.

"I *am* doing something!" Askit snapped back, and opened the doors to
the security room ahead of them. "Those are normally opened from the
*inside*! You're welcome."

The doors slid closed a moment after opening as something else issued
its own commands, but by that time they were already inside.

"Cook the door controls!" Askit ordered Keffa. "I haven't got sole
ownership of it just yet."

"Won't that trap us in the room?" Darragh asked as Keffa did as she was
told. Her Irbzrk stun--gun was set to Deathworlder, and was more than a
match for the sensitive electronics that governed an automated security
door.

"I'll figure something out!" Askit promised him, and indicated that he
could be returned to his own feet. "I mean... they're not exactly using
the smartest tactics available."

The pounding on the door indicated that the bots had arrived, and that
they were combining their firepower to try to blast their way through.
It was deafening, like an endless roll of thunder, but it could have
been worse; the door could have been wide open. Humans were resilient
against standard firearms, and could even survive the anti--tank kinetic
weapons, but security bots carried a heavier grade of weapon.

"I've got more bad news," he told them as he expanded his hold on the
computer systems. "I think we're going to need a new ship."

"We just *got* that ship!" Keffa returned.

"Well, that ship is currently being 'unmaintained' by a small fleet of
maintenance bots," Askit replied, and brought up a visual feed of the
pad on which they'd landed. The damage they'd produced in such a short
time was extraordinary, and there was no doubt that the ship was far
from spaceworthy.

"We're going to need a new ship," Keffa agreed. "We'll have to get out
of here, first, though."

Askit finally managed to get control of the security room's local
systems, temporarily locking down the hidden files that housed who--knew
how many insurgent identities. Until now he'd thought that this would be
a reasonably straightforward task---one that demanded relatively little
of his expertise---but now he was wondering if the whole plan had been a
terrible mistake. "This is bad. Every system is infested with the same
Hierarchy digital forms that populate the implants. Extrapolating from
that, I think it's fair to say they have total control over this planet
and everything on it."

They stared at him in plain horror.

"Can..." Keffa started, "can you do anything?"

Askit scrolled to the most heavily encrypted section of the data--tab, a
place that the standard software was incapable of registering without
the help of a custom module he'd personally designed. There was a file
there, a digital weapon, but the consequences of actually using were
unthinkable. Dying in this shit--hole, however, was even more--so. "I
*can*," he told her. And he did.

"Done," he said, turning to them. "We're about to lose the use of our
translators. Fortunately my English is only *mostly* terrible."

"How does that help?" Darragh asked, baffled.

They all startled as the door made a metallic breaking sound, revealing
that the damage was far more extensive than they'd thought. It continued
for longer than Askit would have liked, but eventually fell silent.

The lights went out.

"How does *all this* help?!" Darragh reiterated.

Askit must have been better equipped for understanding English than he'd
thought. "I talked to Jen at Ark Station," he told them in laboured
English. "She gave me ideas... computer security ideas. Do you know what
a 'worm virus' is?"

"Not really," Darragh replied. "I wasn't really into computers that
much... and you're speaking English!"

"Well... I have just destroyed this planet," Askit replied, tossing
aside the now useless data--pad. It was a scrambled mess, now that the
worm had been unleashed, and with the incredibly interwoven,
unprotected, and outmoded security arrangements present on the planet,
it should already be making the leap to the other major
cyber--junctions. It would destroy everything it touched; automated
systems would be stopping planet--wide, potentially killing the less
resilient Gamel when their implants started failing. After millennia of
progress, peace, and prosperity, civilisation on the Gamlis homeworld
had finally come to its end.

"Oh..." said Darragh.

"What does that mean for us?" Keffa asked, easily the more pragmatic of
the human pair.

"It means we're stuck here," Askit replied. "Indefinitely."
:::
