# S - The White Stuff
***Salvage***

---

New clothes? Check.

Fusion blades? Check.

Anti--tank weapons? Check.

Balls as blue as the goddamned sea? Check, fuckdammit!

There was a threat, Adrian was forced to remind himself as they hurried
down the polished white and chrome corridors that were ubiquitous within
the Aratas, guided only by the presence of doors that had remained open
for their express passage, part of an overall plan to slow the menace
down while the crew could prepare. He had been repeatedly forced to
remind himself of the fact that they were facing a serious and
potentially very deadly threat that would require his full
concentration, but with Jen standing right beside him he was finding
that a very difficult thing to achieve; his mind kept turning to far
more interesting things involving the two of them and no clothes.

"This is going to get us killed," he said in frustration after the third
time he\'d found his attention, and his eyes, drifting elsewhere. "We
need to focus on what we\'re doing!"

Even as he said it, his mind was rebelling against him and returning to
those few glorious moments prior to Askit\'s unwanted interruption, and
his gaze tended to linger in certain important areas when he turned and
looked at her. He knew he should simply stop doing it, but this wasn\'t
the first time he was acting against his better judgement and -- unless
it got him killed today -- it wouldn\'t be the last.

"I know," she replied, her own hungry eyes on him. They\'d been like
that all the damned time they\'d been walking; he could feel her eyes on
him when they should have been paying attention to everything else, but
instead of agitating he had only found it thrilling. "But that\'s easier
said than done. Maybe we should talk to take our minds off of... it? You
were speaking with Askit while *I* was busy getting changed, I take it
you have some sort of plan?"

He did have a plan, and for once it was a plan that he liked. It was
true, in part, that formulating this plan with Askit\'s help hadn\'t
given him enough time to change out of his torn--open shirt into new
clothing, and that was the story he\'d stuck with. The fact that it was
actually because he thought it made him look like a badass was a secret
he would take to his grave.

"We were discussing ways to see things that are cloaked," he replied,
forcing himself to think of the little grey alien rather than Jen\'s
ample-- dammit! "I was asking about the fire control system. Did ever
see the movie \'Hollow Man\'? It had Kevin Bacon in it."

"I was only around ten or eleven when that movie came out," Jen replied.
"So the answer is \'no\'."

"Jesus Christ," Adrian muttered. That was *one* way to make a man feel
old. His rejuvenation had had such an impact on him that it was hard to
think of himself as being a man in his late thirties. "The *idea* is
that the water will splash off of the invisible thing and you\'ll be
able to see it, or at least you\'ll see its outline.."

"Starships use a sort of foam aerosol for fire control," Jen advised
him, "but you probably heard that from Askit. I know that one of the
freighters we took had a fire break out, and that stuff caused a huge
mess that stuck to everything so badly that the boys needed to wash it
off before moving it over. So for this it should work even better than
water."

"I *was* hoping that\'d be the case," he replied, pleased with himself.
"Those things aren\'t half as dangerous if you can actually see them,
assuming they\'re the same things that were on the space station."

That was hopefully the case; robospiders were hardly dangerous at all if
they were visible, but he still preferred the idea of engaging them at a
range. That he and Jen would also be getting covered in foam was simply
icing on the cake, or on the girl as the case may be. He looked away so
that she couldn\'t see his mouth twitching into a smile.

"It\'s a good idea. Very clever," Jen complimented him, and he felt her
eyes burning into him with renewed interest. "Now if only we could fix
that awful taste in movies."

They finally reached the start of the section that had been doused in
the white mess of aerosol and foam, and they trod carefully at first
only to discover that the floor itself was slightly sticky rather than
slick. It hardly carried any kind of scent, but if there was anything it
smelled like it must have been some mixture of pineapple and mint.

"In my defense I was young and had free tickets," he protested as they
began to make their way carefully through the substance, looking out for
goop--covered invisible machines whirling through the vapour. "I took a
girl I liked at the time."

Jen gave him a look of mock jealousy. "Oh did you now? Could it be
you\'re trying to make a girl jealous, Mister Saunders?"

He winked at her. "I don\'t know what you could mean, Miss Delaney. But
I\'m afraid that relationship did not work out."

"Don\'t tell me," she asked with a grin, "that she couldn\'t abide
Mister Bacon\'s cinematic masterpiece?"

"It might have been the fact that the tickets weren\'t next to each
other," Adrian replied. "I\'m told a sleeping woman drooled on her."

She laughed, and he grinned at her like an idiot, delighted by the sound
of her. The surge of primal fear caught him unexpectedly, and his grin
slipped only slightly, but it was enough for her to catch it.

She frowned. "What\'s wrong?"

That was a difficult question for him to answer; how did you tell
someone that you were suddenly absolutely terrified of losing them? He
hadn\'t really thought about it before -- death had always seemed as
though it could happen at any moment -- but right now he found the idea
of *her* death an absolutely unbearable nightmare, and there was nothing
he wasn\'t willing to do to ensure that that did not happen.

He stopped walking and took her by the arm, holding it firmly. He could
feel the warmth of her body through the thin polymeric cloth, and caught
a flash of a world where that flesh was cold and dead; a flash of *that*
was enough to twist his heart in a knot of cold pain, driving the air
from him in a short gasp.

"God, no..." he whispered to himself, before speaking to her in a
wavering plea. "Jen," he asked, "can you please let me do this alone?"

There was no mistaking the flare of her temper, and her eyes felt so
piercing, so accusing that he struggled and failed to avoid looking
away. "Adrian," she warned, "I told you *before* that I dont\' need
protecting."

He nodded. "I know you did, but if you get hurt--"

Her own hand found its way atop his, squeezing firmly. "Adrian, I\'m not
going to let you take all the risks," she said, "I\'m not a damsel in
distress who\'s happy to let you do that for her. I can *help* you, and
quite frankly if you look as though you\'re going to strangle me again I
swear to God that I will stab you."

She was right; he knew she was right, and yet that belief was too weak
to shield him from his fear. This woman, who had once been terrified,
confused, and all too happy to let him take on all of the risk, was now
utterly unwilling to allow him to do so. He much preferred her the way
she was now, but it would have been nice if she wasn\'t going to make
him fight her on this; he doubted he could give her any kind of rational
argument.

"I won\'t do anything like that again," he promised her without
reservation. "But please... please stay safe. Please let me do what I\'m
trained to do, what I\'m *good* at doing. I\'ve dealt with these things
before, and I\'m pretty sure I can do it again, but I *need* you to be
safe."

Stubbornness was writ on her face as she scrutinised him fiercely, her
hard eyes searching his face for some new form of deception, softening
once she\'d found no trace of any, then growing ever so slightly wider
as she touched her fingertips to his face and brought them away wet.

She stared at her fingertips, as though she was completely bewildered.
"Alright," she said, her voice soft and trembling. "Just... just,
alright."

⁂

Cizziz was watching the movement of the two humans as they moved towards
the threatened area. Askit -- their Corti son -- had delivered a message
about what was planned and Cizziz was ready to carry out his part of it.

The plan was simple, at least as far as he understood it, and was
straightforward enough for even a dullard to comprehend. He had ordered
a full withdrawal from the area and had shut all of the doors, and had
only to track the integrity of each to determine where the enemy was.
This strategy he had already sent to the other vessels in his fleet, but
aboard the Aratas the two humans would investigate, and that once they
were in the same area Cizziz would deploy the fire dispersant.

It therefore constituted a clear break from the plan when one of the
humans had turned around to begin returning the way they had come.
Communicators had unfortunately not been part of the equipment his
subordinates had provided them with, and so he could only watch and hope
that there wasn\'t any kind of subterfuge going on.

He gave *that* possibility his undivided attention.

He still didn\'t trust these humans, and he wasn\'t going to let
anything more untoward occur on his watch.

⁂

Jennifer Delaney. Mid--twenties, space--babe pirate queen and colonial
governor, space debris impersonator and professional con artist.

Idiot.

She had stood still while that man had hurried on, making his way down
the identical corridors towards an alien death machine. She had listened
as his footsteps had vanished, and only once she was left in silence did
she turn to begin the slow walk back to her quarters, trudging her way
through the mess that covered the floor around her feet.

She had no idea what had happened, and she felt a curious sense of
disconnect from the exchange that had just occurred. The more that she
reflected on it, the more she didn\'t want to, and the more she felt she
*had* to.

Jen decided that she had lied to herself; she had promised herself that
she would not give in and let that man simply run off and risk his neck
alone, not if she had a say in the matter. And yet she had done just
that.

She had *threatened* herself with repercussions should she back down,
but those were yet more promises made to herself. They had been made to
ensure she stuck to her guns, to make sure that first promise remained
unbroken, and at the time she had been so *certain* that with these she
would hold to it, but in the end they were as empty and easily ignored
as it had proven to be.

But they had all been lies, and Jen felt sick. She was sick of herself,
sick of her weakness, and sick of being the girl she didn\'t want to be.
She had learned to hate the girl who let others be in control, simply
because the alternative was too difficult, and she had pushed herself
*so hard* to rid herself of her, and yet here she was again, being
obedient, being afraid.

Not wanting to ask that man why he was crying.

Not wanting to even think about the fact that it was possible. That man
was supposed to be powerful, he was supposed to be intense and
dangerous, a surprisingly intelligent man with an equally surprising
sense of humour. That man was supposed to be a lover *and* a fighter, a
ridiculously sexy badboy for a girl whose only sexual partners were a
somewhat effeminate office worker and the bloke who fixes the printers.

He was *supposed* to almost be a myth, a force of destruction that swept
aside his enemies to protect his friends, to protect *her* in spite of
what she said. He was not... he was not supposed to cry. He was not
supposed to beg. He was not supposed to *break*.

She stopped her slow pace, and stared down at her hand once again. The
fingertips were dry now, but she could still *feel* the tears that had
coated them. She wiped them hurriedly on her new shirt, but they were no
longer a physical thing and it did not help.

She had built him, she now realised, into what she needed him to be.
Even when she had feigned strength, she had needed him, or at least the
*idea* of him. That had kept her going, it had kept her pushing on when
everything was awful and she was a lonely human lost in the great void
of a galaxy that feared and hated her for what she was. The idea of him
had been there when nobody else was, the idea of him had been there when
*he* was there as well, but the idea of him had always seemed the better
option, the stronger option, and that was the one she had always chosen
to see, that was the one she had felt all that anger, hatred, and
passion for.

But the idea of that man was not that man.

"God," she gasped, grabbing hold of the corridor wall for support. "Keep
it together, Jen. Keep it together..."

Keep it together? She was already crying, clutching weakly at the wall
to hold her up as she began to bawl her eyes out about everything she\'d
been holding back since she\'d been abducted. Since before that, even,
when her life had been just as big of a mess as it was now.

Where was her strength now? Gone; the levy had broken and it had been
swept away as the lies she told herself crumbled under their own weight.
She\'d been pushing this line for so long that the only surprise here
was that it hadn\'t happened sooner, and if it hadn\'t been for the idea
of that man she was sure that it would have. She was under no illusions
that this would not have happened if he had only not reminded her of his
humanity, of the fact that he could also be afraid and in pain. Although
it might have happened at a more opportune time.

For the moment she decided to stop resisting, to just let her tears to
run their course and then she could move on. As what, or as who, she
didn\'t know, but she hoped it could be someone who didn\'t need to lie
to themselves to keep pushing on. Someone who could live with the truth
of things, and had the courage to take their fate in their own hands.

In other words, someone else.

⁂

Adrian had hated leaving Jen behind, almost as much as he hated the idea
of bringing her with him. Maybe they *should* find somewhere nice to
live, just the two of them, once this was all over. He didn\'t know that
he wanted to try marriage again, but if it was with her...

He shook his head, he\'d told himself that he was never going to make
*that* mistake again, and he intended to stick by his decision.

Still, he had to admit that she was worth protecting, worth killing for,
worth everything to him... Adrian determined that he was not feeling
well.

The Soldier took over.

Something was very wrong; even detached as he was, the Soldier was
feeling the violent and erratic mood swings that were beginning to take
hold of him, the blurriness in the mind that accompanied it and the
sudden shifts into and out of depression. He was being poisoned.

He looked at the floor, noting the vapour that rose from the foam. It
was intended to prevent combustion, but he hadn\'t asked what it might
do to *him*. Surely if Askit had thought there was anything that could
hurt him... unless Askit had been the traitor all along...

Paranoia, the Soldier noted. He was carrying a fusion blade and an
anti--tank gun, and he couldn\'t be trusted with either if his
detachment from the emotions were to degrade completely. He was too deep
in now, however, and there was only the possibility of pressing on, to
find this thing and destroy it and then hope like hell he could get out
of the mess before it overwhelmed him completely. He was glad that Jen
had gotten out when she did, because he wasn\'t at all sure what might
have happened if she was still here.

Nothing good, he was certain of that much.

He reached the final door, finding it sealed, but already there were
holes being cut into it with invisible weapons. It seemed as though
they\'d managed to fix the power supply problem.

*Good for them*.

Big Bird should have opened the door right then, but nothing happened.
He was supposed to do it, though, because he definitely had the sensors
that told him where everyone and everything was. Did he know of the
effect this stuff had on humans? Was that his intention all along?

The Soldier would kill-- the Soldier would take control of his emotions.

He was breathing heavily, aware that each breath drew in more of the
poison but unable to avoid doing anything else against such mental
stress. Here, at least, there was no decision to be made; Big Bird had
been meant to open the door, but he had not opened the door, and the
evil machine was doing the job for him.

There was no need to wait for it to work its way through; the Soldier
powered up his own blade and set to work.

⁂

Jen came to when she was being pulled along the corridor, surprised by
the fact that she\'d been unconscious, and starkly aware of the
unfortunate self--revelations she\'d experienced before she\'d passed
out. She felt guilty, and horrified, and far too self--aware for her own
liking.

She wished she had some really strong alcohol to help her forget all of
it, but so far it seemed as though the galaxy was completely, accursedly
dry. Not exactly an Irishman\'s galaxy, she thought wryly.

"What happened?" she asked as a Corti -- it was Askit she realised after
a moment of squinted study -- came to her side.

"We don\'t know," he said. "You were not moving on the sensors, so we
came to find you. Do you feel alright?"

"Yes..." she said absently. "Also no..."

Askit shared a look of concern with a member of the ship Jen imagined
was likely to be some sort of medical agent. He was some sort of
crustacean, bright red in colour and squat.

"I\'m Doctor Hakathrita," the crustacean introduced himself. "Can you
tell me where it hurts?"

Her ego, mainly, along with depths of her psyche that didn\'t really
need all of those self--confessions made in the corridor of an alien
ship. She was still trying to piece them all together, trying to decide
what the hell her emotions were supposed to be doing and if they were
actually doing anything like it.

"I\'m just confused," she told him. "I\'m not sure there\'s a pill for
that."

"Only to increase that particular malaise," Doctor Hakathrita replied
with a chuckle. "Do you feel well enough to allow your son here to
return you to your room?"

"My *son*?" she asked, before remembering the story they had told the
Fleet Master. "Oh... yes, my son... if you would be so kind."

She got herself to her feet, knowing that she would tear the limbs from
anyone who offered to assist, and was not surprised or offended when
nobody did. She felt wobbly, but that was nothing compared to the
overwhelming sense of foolishness that burned within her. She needed to
get back to her room, even if it was just to hide herself away and
think.

She had to think about her place out here, to think about what she
wanted to do with herself whether she wanted to stay or to go home. She
had to think about what she needed to say to Adrian, as well as how she
actually felt about *him* rather than the man she had pretended he was.

She turned sharply, and had she not flailed a grab for the corridor
bulkhead she would have spun herself off of her feet. For the first time
since she\'d developed it, the power of her improved body was working
against her. "Adrian..." she said sharply upon remembering where he\'d
gone.

"You mean your mate, Drian--Ay?" Doctor Hakathrita asked. "We have yet
to recover him. It seems he\'s holed up in a side room and is shooting
at anybody who gets close! It\'s lucky he hasn\'t actually hit anyone
yet."

Jen looked down at Askit, who seemed as concerned and mystified as she
was. He shrugged, purposefully using the human gesture to indicate his
complete ignorance.

"That doesn\'t sound like him," Jen told the Doctor. "He\'s erratic
sometimes, but he\'s not *that* erratic."

"Then perhaps you could talk to him before you rest?" Doctor Hakathrita
asked. "The Fleet Master requested I asked it of you if your condition
was well enough."

Jen sighed. It seemed that once again she was pulling Adrian out of the
fire, only this time she wasn\'t sure that she could bear to face him.
It also didn\'t seem as though she had much of a choice. "I\'d better go
and talk to him then."


