# S - Game Plan
***Salvage***

---

**Five--Twelve Corridor, Irbzrk Orbital Factory Main Station**

Almost as soon as Zripob had informed the police of the situation, the
entire Five--Twelve corridor had been shut down and surrounded. At
Jen\'s suggestion they had also started to use hover cameras to roam the
are looking for the human.

They weren\'t finding anything.

It had been a costly exercise as well, and Zripob had been forced to
listen to a whole litany of complaints from the senior authorities. Not
that there was any gratitude for having the crew of the Zhadersil
provide assistance either.

There were even hints of resentment and suspicion, as though they -- and
Jen particularly -- had somehow been responsible for the whole grisly
affair. Zripob may be no diplomat, but as cathartic as shooting those
people might be, and as effectively as it might shut them up, he was
still completely certain that it would also prove to be the kind of
significant life decision that resulted in \'getting put in jail\' and
\'staying there\'.

The area itself was not huge, merely a number of tightly packed
facilities with multiple levels that would turn a manhunt into a
nightmare. It was the most ideal place the killer, \'English\' as Jen
called him, could have picked. Zripob was no stranger to bad places to
get caught in a crossfire or ambush, and these buildings are basically
it.

"This doesn\'t feel at all right," Jen said as they finished their third
sweep of the area. Her nerves were a wreck, even the usually oblivious
Zripob could see that, worn ragged by spending each moment in the
expectation of sudden violence. Zripob didn\'t felt too much better,
with his attention having being divided across all the possible points
of attack in each and every room they moved through. At every moment
they had been waiting for an ambush to hit them, or waiting for it to
hit another group somewhere else, it was hard to remember a more
stressful situation.

"Perhaps he was deterred by all these police? " he suggested, although
he personally doubted it would be the case. "Or perhaps he is toying
with us?"

"Zripob," Jen said, "I can tell you that whoever he is, he is a most
seriously disturbed individual, and my entire knowledge of such people
comes from the telly. I don\'t know that we can predict him like that."

"You have also said that Adrian was seriously disturbed," he reminded
her. "It was not impossible to predict him, merely difficult. What would
he have done?"

That seemed to trouble her, because she frowned and grew quiet, and at
first Zripob thought he may have offended her by mentioning the taboo
topic, regardless of how relevant it might have been.

"He wouldn\'t have written all over the walls in blood for one," she
said, her voice hard with a mixture of anger and something else Zripob
couldn\'t immediately recognise. "And I can\'t imagine him carving
someone up like that poor foreman..."

She grew quiet, her eyes growing wide in what Zripob had learned to
interpret as sudden realization.

"What is it?" He asked.

"He\'s created a disturbance!" she said. "There was no way it wasn\'t
going to make one, this isn\'t something you see every day. It\'s a
distraction to get us out here while he\'s..."

"It\'s a distraction!" she said. "It has has to be! He wanted us here
while..."

"While he was busy attacking us from elsewhere," Zripob finished. "But
we are all here."

Jen stared at him. "We might be," she said. "But our ship isn\'t."

---

The mice ran around and around in the five--twelve corridor while
Cameron watched through the handful of hover cameras he had roaming the
space above corridor five--twelve. They moved fearfully, with excessive
caution, waiting for the trap to spring at any given moment.

Then they were wandering around in a dreadful confusion when no trap had
sprung, never realising the whole point of the exercise, never
discovering that they were being watched and studied and tested like
laboratory animals.

That was how the game was played, but they had been so disappointing,
their efforts verging on childish. Where was the competence that had
allowed them to repel a Hunter army? The tactics he saw here were those
of prey.

It made the whole process of formulating a plan seem entirely
unnecessary, he thought unhappily. People like these could never really
comprehend and appreciate being destroyed by a really *good* plan. A
really good plan would be wasted on them, but that didn\'t mean there
was no fun to be had. Cameron White was a big boy, and he knew that as
far as fun went, sometimes you had to make your own.

As the mice played at hunters, Cameron White paid a little visit to
their ship, a freighter vessel that didn\'t exactly suggest \'wanted
pirate\'. This was what they used to transport their ill--gotten gains
to Mister Cripple, and even with Mister Cripple out of the picture
there\'d just be someone new to take his place, if there wasn\'t
already.

He didn\'t bother to try and go inside; that sort of thing would get a
man noticed, even if he was in costume, and Cameron White did not enjoy
being noticed -- even mice could be able to put two and two together if
he went leaving them the answers. Neither did he attach anything to the
outside of the vessel either; he\'d long ago learned that things poorly
attached to the outside of a vessel had a nasty habit of falling off
during FTL -- although the things that experience would do to a xeno
were a truly a wonder to behold -- and were easily found with anything
but the most cursory of searches. In any case, that would again require
getting a lot closer to the freighter than he found comfortable, and
unless he intended on clearing the entire dock of its workers -- a very
challenging, albeit equally rewarding task -- he would be noticed.

Instead he approached the cargo that was awaiting the return of the mice
for loading. A tracking device in a unit of space--lettuces, and he\'d
be able to give a merry chase, and they\'d even do him the favour of
putting it on their own ship.

A well--worn clich√©, perhaps, but the classics always had their place
and they served to spice up an otherwise bland game. Would they find it
right away? During transit perhaps? Maybe not until it was being
unloaded on the other side. Maybe not at all!

Maybe he\'d be able to take it back when he arrived at their base of
operations. And when he *did* arrive, well... then the game would begin
in earnest.

---

**Cavaras, Corti Directorate Core World**

Further introductions had taken Adrian all of five minutes. A Corti
systems tech responsible for breaking into the devices that Adrian would
eventually get him to, and a Chehnasho pilot who would be tasked with
transport and gunnery when paired with what would have described as a
light gunship.

Margarita had revealed that Askit, the Corti tech, had until very
recently been serving a long prison sentence received for breaking in to
the systems belonging to Dominion Intelligence and adding some
interesting charges against someone with whom he had held a grudge.
He\'d only been caught on an unrelated crime after his victim had spent
ten months in a Deathworld secret prison.

Adrian had only been slightly surprised that such places actually
existed. That it was a Corti initiative did not surprise him at all.

The Chehnasho pilot, however, had a distinguished record flying in the
war, and could name half a dozen places she\'d helped cross off the map.
Gdugin, as he was called, was here for money, but not only that; it was
also about revenge. They were the second team employed by Hrbrd for this
and the first had contained her husband. He had vanished along with the
rest of his team and she wouldn\'t settle for a nice funeral.

He didn\'t bother to insult her intelligence by asking why she thought
she could find answers here. What they were about to get involved with
was so big that it had to be related. So he asked her something else
instead.

"Do you have any idea where we should start looking? It seems to me that
your husband must have uncovered enough to get noticed by the wrong kind
of people. If he told you anything..."

She seemed surprised at hos immediate willingness to cooperate in her
personal vendetta. "Nobody else seems to care about that, so long as I
do my job..."

"I just think that it\'s the fastest way to find these arseholes," he
replied. "The faster we finish the job, the sooner you get your revenge
and the sooner *I* stop looking like Mr. Bump."

"Who is Mr. Bump?" Askit asked curiously. "Some kind of Earth animal?"

Adrian stared at him for a while. "Mate," he said at last, "I am not
going to spend my valuable fucking time teaching you about Mister Men."

"Well, then what *are* you going to spend your valuable fucking time
doing?" Askit replied in a surprisingly solid imitation.

"He\'s going to spend it planning," Gdugin replied for him. "Planning to
find the human who killed my husband, and planning to burn down
everything he and his masters built."

"Well then," Adrian said, "you heard the lady. Looks like I\'m planning
on fucking a lot of shit up."

He looked between them. "Now," he said, "let\'s start by you telling me
everything you know."

---

**Irbzrk Orbital Factory Main Station**

Jennifer Delaney. Mid--twenties, space--babe pirate queen and completely
worried about when the next shoe would drop.

The fact that the ship was fine had not assuaged her fears. She had made
Chir and Trycrur go over the whole thing twice -- inside and out --
before she had let the dock workers even touch it. She had talked to
them too, to see if any human aside from herself had been seen anywhere
around it. The answer had been no. But it had also been no when she had
started asking around. Nobody had seen a human around besides Jen
herself, and in the current state of the galaxy that was simply not
something that was easily missed.

That in itself had told Jen enough; she was either looking for an alien
with a deeply twisted sense of humor or the more likely scenario of a
human in disguise. Unfortunately either case meant that any further
investigation was entirely pointless.

Magnificent.

"We\'re done loading," Chir said, joining her on the command deck. "No
luck?"

She sighed and leaned back into the plush chair she\'d commandeered for
thinking in. "Nothing that helps find him," she said tiredly. "It\'s
been doing my head in! I can\'t help feeling that I\'ve missed
something, but I\'ve no idea what or what I should have done differently
I tell you I\'m going half mad."

"Perhaps I shouldn\'t tell you the bad news I just heard then?"

"The other shoe?" she asked and laughed loudly but with little real
amusement at his confusion. She was sure that this sort business could
send her mad, and wondered how Adrian had coped. Maybe he hadn\'t.

"Ach, just tell me the new bad news," she told him, already considering
a thousand and one possibilities as to what had gone wrong now.
"Otherwise I\'ll go mad the rest of the way wondering what it is."

"The police have discovered a family of Vzk\'tk stabbed and dismembered
in their own home," Chir said uncomfortably. "Two adults, and a female
child."

Jen swallowed hard. "The same guy? It has to be, right?"

"They\'re treating them as linked," Chir said, "but they haven\'t got
the experience to deal with this sort of thing. I don\'t know that
they\'ll be able to stop this guy if we just leave."

"You\'re saying you want to stay and help find him?" she asked. She
wasn\'t really against the idea in concept, but in practice it seemed
like English had already started targeting her and her crew, and it
wasn\'t like she was familiar with dealing with total psychos, no matter
what she might have called Adrian while she was pissed off. "I\'m really
not sure how much help we can be, Chir..."

"Even if we can\'t give much," he said, "if we simply leave and he
continues to murder... I do not think my conscience, such as it is,
could handle that."

"What do the others think?" Jen asked, although she did have a suspicion
that with the possible exception of Zripob the sentiment would be across
the board.

"I haven\'t asked them," Chir replied. "This is what *I* am telling you.
I won\'t stop you from going, Jen, but if you do go I won\'t be coming
with you."

"You think you\'ll be able to stop him?" Jen asked incredulously. "The
man is a total fucking nutcase. I wouldn\'t even be surprised if he
didn\'t even really see you all as people, and that\'s how he can go
into a family home and kill everyone inside."

"Humans are not unstoppable Jen," Chir said. "Merely very dangerous."

"Chir," Jen replied firmly. "You\'re not equipped--"

"Electrical potential and current!" Chir interrupted nonsensically,
although with a certainty that would be strange if it didn\'t mean
anything. "It is possible with what we have here on the station."

"What are you talking about?" Jen asked, genuinely not following. That
was a very scientific sounding thing to say so forcefully, and Jen had
never been the best student when it came to the non--computing sciences.

"Adrian told Trycrur and I," Chir said, "a while after we came back...
High potential, low current to stun. Increase current to kill."

It clicked. "You\'re talking about stun guns!" she said in complete
surprise. "That could definitely work, but why did Adrian tell you about
those?"

"I asked him the same question," Chir said. "He was not specific, but
from what I have gathered I doubt it was because he feared *you*. I did
not know how to treat him after that; how do you talk to a man who has
handed you the key to his death and won\'t even tell you why?"

"You\'re only telling me this now?" Jen asked. It was a lot to take in,
and now she wondered what Adrian had been thinking to do that. She was a
little jealous that he had trusted them enough to give them that kind of
information, and yet had withheld so much from her.

"We saw no reason to concern you with the extent of our knowledge," Chir
admitted. "Especially in light of his fate. I apologise if this was an
error."

She paused, looking away and thinking. "No," she finally said, "it
wasn\'t an error. It wouldn\'t have helped the situation then, but it
might now..."

Jen looked up to face him. "I\'ll tell you what you need to know to hunt
a man, but right now I need to go find out what this radiation burst
was. Zripob says he got the information from some other guys, so..."

"You can\'t wait?" Chir asked. "This is important, Jen. More people
could die."

"Zripob says it will take a day or two, no more," she said, "then we\'ll
swing back past here and help."

But it was more likely, she thought, that the problem would follow her
instead. She had that \'being stalked by a serial killer\' feeling that
normally comes with being identified in a bad limerick written in blood.
Nobody put that sort of effort into a relationship unless they were
expecting something in return, and in this case Jen didn\'t think a
polite \'no thanks\' would do the trick.

"You\'re afraid!" Chir accused. "Adrian would not have been afraid,
he--"

"HE IS DEAD..." Jen began, her temper breaking for a moment. "He...
Adrian... is almost certainly dead, Chir. And yes I\'m scared, because
on Earth our horror stories are in the newspapers, and they\'re about
blokes like him finding girls like me and cutting them up into little
bits if they\'re *lucky*. So you\'ll appreciate why I might be a little
worried after getting that lovely message!"

Chir was silent, seeming a little taken aback by her outburst. Then he
looked away shamefully. "I apologise, Jen. It is easy to forget that
while humans are *all* very dangerous to us, they must also have those
they fear. I... did not appreciate your fears, and I should have."

Jen studied him for a moment and then smiled. "Never mind that now,
Chir," she said softly. "This is what we\'ll do. You\'ll take Trycrur
and help the police here get the weapons they\'ll need. Zripob and I
will go out past this space thing and be back within a couple of days.
By then the weapons will be ready, and maybe in the meantime I can
remember enough messed up facts to be of help."

That seemed to be something he could accept at least, and he nodded his
agreement. "I will say one last thing," he said before leaving. "You are
not weak, Jen. You should not fear this man."

"Thank you, Chir," she said.

But she knew he was wrong.

---

**Cavaras, Corti Directorate Core World**

"What I\'m gathering here," Adrian said unhappily, "is that on the whole
we know precisely jack fucking shit about what is going on out there."

"That\'s not true!" Askit protested. "Entirely..."

"What you\'ve told me is that there are some \'bad guys\' who run
companies, and they pay off your politicians to keep a war going," he
summarised, and then held up his hand before Gdugin could add her own
two cents. "And that they have a fucking human helping them. Maybe."

"It\'s a solid start," Gdugin said.

"It\'s fucking useless is what it is," Adrian replied irritably. Two
hours of fruitless conversation with the pair of them had actually made
him less aware of what was going on. "What we need here are some solid
facts."

"I suppose I could start hacking around..." Askit said uncertainly.

"You get caught doing *that*," Adrian said coolly, "and I\'ll fucking
guarantee there\'ll be thugs at your door. My approach is somewhat more
direct."

"It involves violence, doesn\'t it?" Askit interpreted glumly.

"I\'m fine with that," Gdugin added.

"It *will* involve a little bit of violence," Adrian admitted. "Possibly
some kidnapping. There may be some torture."

"Still fine," Gdugin replied.

Askit sighed. "Why do I feel like I\'m not really with the good guys,
here?"

"There are no \'good guys\'," Adrian told him. "Or at least that\'s what
I once heard from a man whose day I brought to a real sudden fucking
end. Still seems like the sort of advice that Corti would take to
heart."

"That is racial stereotyping," Askit replied crossly. "I\'ll have you
know I\'m an individual, not \'just some Corti\'. Why don\'t you turn
those braincells towards explaining what it is you have in mind?"

"Alright, then," Adrian replied, smiling slightly as he peered over the
map of the mega--city. He pointed to a facility on the outskirts. "This
is how we\'re going to play it. This place here is the corporate
headquarters of this... what the fuck are they called?"

"Iridis Industries," Askit supplied helpfully. "They do medicines,
homegoods, childrens toys--"

"And weapons," Adrian finished. "Just the sort of fuckers you\'d expect
to be raking it in from a war, right?"

Askit looked at his data pad, flicking through some details and
frowning. "Their profits *have* drastically increased since the
beginning of the war," he observed. "It\'s also likely that they sell to
both sides, as there\'s nothing preventing them from doing so."

"So they\'re probably not fans of peace," Adrian replied. "Like they
say, you just have to follow the money."

"I have never heard that phrase before," Askit said, "but... it works.
What do you intend to do?"

Adrian thought a moment. "I need you to look into who owns stock--"

"Stock?" Askit asked.

"Shares... slices of a company divided up amongst investors..." Adrian
said, trying to think how to describe it. He didn\'t have what you might
call a mind for finance.

"What a bizarre concept," Askit said. "Corporations are owned in part by
their employees. The more senior the employee, the more money they make.
Profits are distributed based on that."

"Some sort of bastardised profit--share system then," Adrian reckoned.
"That still means the guys at the top are the ones getting paid the
most, and who have the most to lose if the war ends. Who have they been
giving money to?"

"Why would anyone know that?" Gdugnir asked.

"Because mixing money and politics is a fucking piss--poor idea?" Adrian
asked, now at the edge of exasperation. "These are the fucking basics of
a democracy," he berated them, "how the fuck are you lot not run by some
tinpot tyrant?"

They at least had the decency to look embarrassed on behalf of their
societies. Adrian supposed that, just as none of that had ever occurred
to them, it hadn\'t occurred to their societies either. If that didn\'t
change, they were going to be completely fucked when humanity inevitably
hit the scene. "Really, I feel sorry for you poor bastards when Earth
gets its shit together and finally decides to join us," he said. "You
lot are going to get eaten alive... uh, metaphorically."

He had added that last bit hurriedly as their eyes had widened in
horror. Space didn\'t need more than one race of Hunters, although
really even one was too many. "Look, all you\'ve told me actually makes
it easier. We go to where the rich people are, and then we ask them
questions they don\'t want to answer."

"And then comes the torture?" Gdugnir asked, with perhaps a smidgen too
much enthusiasm.

"Well," he said, with a slight shrug. "Maybe a little torture."

Adrian wondered what Hrbrd would think of this plan; he was fairly
certain the Corti leader wouldn\'t like it very much, but if he\'d
wanted a job done slow and careful he\'d done two things wrong. First,
he\'d hired Adrian Saunders; and second, he\'d turned Adrian Saunders
into a giant blue teddy bear.

This two--bit investigation was about to get expedited.


