---
title: Crossing Paths
---

# Crossing Paths

\

\

::: chapter
**Date Point: 3Y 8M 4W 5D AV**

**Hravin IV Observation Station**\
**Adrian Saunders**

The research station was small, uninhabited, and didn\'t have toilets.
It was placed -- for surely it had not been built there -- upon a moon
that orbited a gas giant that Adrian suspected was the greenest thing
he\'d ever seen. It was an enormous viridian orb of nearly uniform hue,
and tidal locking ensured that the ceiling viewport was forever fixed on
that gorgeous sight. Looking upwards, Adrian let out a low whistle of
appreciation that drew the attention of all present.

"It\'s very green," he explained himself, painfully aware of how simple
that made him sound. "You\'d, uh, think they\'d have people here to
appreciate the view. Or work."

"The planet is larger than it should be," Trix explained through his
earpiece. "Its substantial mass should have prevented it from expanding
to the size that it has. It seems that made it interesting enough to put
a station here, but not interesting enough to permanently staff it."

He stifled a nod or any other reply; he remembered how people back on
Earth -- arseholes mostly -- would walk around and carry on
conversations over hands--free. They hadn\'t looked much different to
crazy people, and given his long--standing issues with slowly succumbing
to madness he'd decided that he wouldn't give his companions any more
reason to worry. The two humans did look up, though, before shrugging in
unison and turning back to what they were doing.

Chir rapped his knuckles on the central table to regain attention, and
the metallic thump rang around the small domed room like a high--pitched
gong. The Gaoian frowned, held a hand against the table to still its
vibration, and cleared his throat awkwardly. "I was hoping we could get
down to business. We might be alone here, but I am ill at ease with
remaining for too long."

"Well said," Askit replied. "There are three matters for our discussion.
Layla, Point Zero, and Jennifer Delaney. In that order."

Adrian frowned at the little Corti, who studiously ignored him doing so.
He wasn't ignorant of their views on his thought processes regarding
Jen, and nor was he entirely in disagreement with them; while he wasn't
as unbalanced as he had been, he was remained far from objective, so for
now he allowed the others to control the course of the conversation.

"Layla *claims* she was first employed as a spy, and then, upon reaching
the limits of her loose morals, was *forced* into further betraying our
confidences by ever more underhanded means," Chir related, and the growl
that edged his voice made no secret of how he felt about any of that.
"However, if -- and I do mean *if* -- she does turn out to be telling
the truth, I'd rather not allow Gaoian children to languish in some
corporate prison."

"If it's of any help," Grznk interrupted, "the few scans I was able to
get on her did indicate she has previously been pregnant, but that she
is not pregnant now. That confirms part of her story, but I couldn't
tell you more than that."

Darragh scratched his throat thoughtfully, plainly enjoying the fact
that his first beard was slowly beginning to grow in, even if it was
just in patches. "What about some kind of alien lie--detector? Or even a
truth serum?"

Doctor Grznk snorted in derision. "There's no such drug, and I don't
have access to the advanced laboratory equipment that would allow me to
read brainwave patterns. I'm not even that certain we even have that
information anywhere accessible."

Rubbing his own stubbled chin, Adrian thought back to the various ways
of getting the truth out of somebody on Earth, and excluded anything
that would immediately kill an alien. "I might be able to manage it," he
reluctantly announced, getting their undivided attention immediately,
"although I'd like to try the easy way first."

Darragh frowned, but was surprisingly quick to puzzle it out. "Are you
talking about your heat vision? Because I heard that's not all that
effective."

"On humans, mate," Adrian reminded him, "but I don't know how Gaoians
work. Do different parts of them light up when they spin bullshit?
Maybe, or maybe not, but we've got Chir here to help me find out. Let's
not forget about vocal stress; I watched a docco on that once and it
seemed alright."

"Those might work," Doctor Grznk noted. "I can work with your hacker to
use her translator implant as a measurement tool, although once again
we'll need Chir for our test subject."

"Forgive me for my reluctance," Chir replied, "but I'd rather not be a
Corti test subject, and I especially do not want my implants further
tampered with. What were the *hard* options, Adrian?"

"Uncomfortably close to torture," Adrian replied, grimacing. "I don't
really want to go down *that* fucking path unless I absolutely have to,
and I know that amongst humans it's not that reliable anyway."

"So if she *is* telling the truth..." Askit interrupted, attempting to
get the conversation back on track, "what is your intention, Chir?"

"Reconnaissance and rescue," the Gaoian replied simply. "I'm not going
to just throw myself at these people without a plan, but nor am just I
going to walk away. As for Layla--"

"We should dump her on the nearest backwater planet," Keffa finished,
scowling angrily; Adrian gathered that Keffa had started to trust the
Gaoian female, and now that they'd had time to catch a breath she'd been
busy stoking her anger. "Or leave her here. Anything that gets that
lying bitch the fuck out of our lives."

"We should incinerate her," Xayn suggested. "That way she will never
pose a threat again. It is objectively the safest option."

"I'll send you through a list of nearby planets that are suitably
shitty," Askit advised Chir while tapping away at his data pad, Xayn's
suggestion pointedly ignored. "Somewhere for her to be miserable that
won't actually kill her."

"Thank you," Chir replied, then issued a heavy sigh. "I suppose the next
item is this 'Point Zero'. I know effectively nothing about it, would
you care to enlighten us?"

Askit looked up from his data pad. "It's a massive data node. Just about
everything from the Hierarchy runs through it, and losing it would cause
them severe disruption. It won't stop them entirely, but their
operations will suffer considerably. My information states it is located
inside the core of a small moon."

They all looked down, and Askit was forced to dispel their presumption.
"Not *this* one."

Chir looked back up from the floor. "I suppose you intend to use your
skills against them, then? Break their computers with some bad code?"

Askit shook his head. "I'm not optimistic about my chances there, since
that's actually not how computers work. I was hoping to find a way to
engage in some good old--fashioned 'breaking shit', and fortunately
we're allied with the worst thing that can ever happen to anyone."

He turned to Adrian. "I mean that in the nicest possible way."

"Thanks mate," Adrian replied gruffly. "Appreciate it, but even I might
struggle with getting out of *that* plan in one piece. You'd need a big
fucking army to attack a planet."

"He's not wrong," Darragh agreed. "When I was working on the docks, I'd
hear a lot about how many soldiers were getting chewed up in the
galactic war. The numbers weren't reassuring, and we don't have anywhere
near that number of people."

"But they did not have three humans and a V'Straki!" Xayn contended. "We
are worth *thousands* of lesser soldiers, and with the technology of my
people behind us--"

"Still can't get aboard the Zhadersil, mate," Adrian reminded him. "I'm
told you'd need a fleet of radiation scrubbers to get it even close to
habitable again."

"I was thinking of another way," Askit replied, looking at Adrian very
pointedly. "But I imagine you'll know more about that than I do."

"He means the V'Straki super--weapon," Trix added, once again speaking
to Adrian in private.

"I know what he means," Adrian hissed back, then observed the raised
eyebrows -- and whatever substitutes existed -- that resulted from
talking to himself in an apparently irritable manner. He decided to
ignore it. "I'll look into it."

Chir observed him for a moment, but Adrian maintained an impassive mask
that would have frustrated the humans, and a Gaoian had no chance of
divining anything he shouldn't know. He gave up after a few moments,
unsatisfied but willing to leave it there. "Let me know if you need
anything further," he said, "and I won't hesitate to help. That leaves
us with the final matter."

"Finding Jen," Darragh announced.

"Indeed," agreed Chir. "The discovery, and recovery, of Jennifer
Delaney. It's difficult to find a single person in a galaxy if you've no
idea where to look, but fortunately we're not completely uninformed. Her
last known destination, according to our most recent data, was the
Ilrayen Band."

"An awful place that every sensible person avoids," Askit told Adrian,
"so you should feel right at home. It's *full* of Deathworlds, about
fifty all told."

"Fifty haystacks," mused Darragh, "one red headed Irish lass. How hard
could it be?"

"Dunno mate," Adrian replied, knowing fated words when he heard them,
"but I reckon we'll send you to find out."

‚ÅÇ

**Surface above Derktha, Agwaren Capital City**\
**Jennifer Delaney**

Jennifer Delaney didn't like Wednesdays, hated them in fact, even more
than Mondays. On Wednesdays she just couldn't seem to summon the will to
give a shit, and if she was being honest with herself she was always a
bit of a cranky bitch whenever they rolled around. There was no doubt in
her mind that today was a Wednesday, even if it wasn't.

"You know," she said to her nurse, a squat Agwaren male who didn't
understand her, "I remember when getting half--blind meant going down to
the pub and drinking too much. Although I never did that, come to think
of it, because I was too worried about what my parents might think."

She rubbed the eye--patch, trying to trick her body into thinking she
was scratching the interminable itch that lay behind it, and eventually
gave up with an irritable hiss. "What a fucking waste, eh? Although I
suppose that I finally fit the title of 'Pirate Queen'."

"As you say, Chosen One," the Nurse replied, not able to understand but
also not wanting to offend their new messiah. "I'm sure you must be
hungry... and here's the baker--boy now."

Jennifer Delaney shifted herself in a struggle against sheets that
eventually left her sitting upright in her bed, regarding the Agwaren
male whose task it was to bake what she'd decided to call 'yeti--bread'.
It was hard, far more suitable for Agwaren jaws, and tasted like a wet
dog, which was apparently on purpose, so it wasn't her favourite meal of
all time. There also wasn't anything else.

"Thank you so much," she said, taking two of the awful rolls and making
generally pleasant noises that anybody could understand. These
particular rolls were heavily fragrant in moistened Labrador, and it
took all her strength to avoid gagging as she passed it under her nose
to demonstrate how much she liked it. "You've really outdone yourself."

It was something about aliens, she'd decided. They just didn't seem to
care about their food like normal -- read: human -- people did. The best
they managed with some sort of sad salad made from a sort of alien
lettuce that was somewhat less satisfying than a wilted iceberg variety,
and the Agwarens didn't even seem all that interested in anything that
didn't include their breads in some capacity.

"You'd really think that a bunch of aspiring Wookies would like a good
bit of meat," she muttered to herself as the baker left and young Lord
Groddi made his entrance, dismissing the nurse as he did so. "I don't
get it," she said, "you've obviously got the teeth for it."

Groddi was plainly perplexed for a few moments as he processed the
words, but finally nodded with the light of understanding. "There is
little chance for hunting. Those who travel the surface -- as we do now
-- only ever took meat when it was easily gathered. Most have no taste
for it."

Jen raised an eyebrow, earning a pang of pain for choosing the wrong
one, and placed a hand over the injury to soothe it. "By your choice of
words, you do?"

"It was an infrequent delicacy for the upper classes," Groddi replied.
"I consumed it whenever it was available. I'd hoped that while we were
on the surface we might find more meat, but we seem to have scared the
beasts off."

That was a pity, but not entirely unexpected, and you only had to
observe the Agwarens for a moment to realise they wouldn't make
particularly good hunters. "How do preparations go for the assault on
the Dark One?"

Groddi frowned. "Haltingly," he grudgingly admitted, "but as little can
be done to speed proceedings, you should just think of it as extra time
in which to heal. With the exception of your eye, you seem nearly fully
recovered."

She nodded, fully agreeing with the observation. "But the Nurse says I
should remain until there is no danger of infection. He wasn't sure if
that was even possible with the 'Chosen One', but he doesn't want to be
the one to get me killed."

"Then that is what you should do," Groddi replied, nodding to the wisdom
of the advice, or at least to the parts he understood. "*Can* you be
infected?"

"I don't know," she replied truthfully. Out in the wider galaxy she'd
have said definitely not, but this was a Deathworld and the rules were
different here. Not to mention the Cruezzir in her system would
undoubtedly have something to say on the matter as well, and who knows
what it might do in response to some ghastly alien microbe trying to
colonise her eye--socket? "Better not to find out."

Young Lord Groddi answered that with the delivery of an old, wood--bound
book. "I did bring the details that you were hoping for. They were not
easy to find, given the state of our city, but it isn't damaged. This is
the *first* recording of the Dark One."

"I'll need you to read it to me," she told him, and sat patiently as he
did so, but was frustrated to discover that there wasn't much to be
learned. As she'd expected there were hints of an 'old time', a golden
age before the Dark One, and it came as no surprise that in the stories
the Dark One burned the world with flames from the sky. The Agwarens had
hidden away below the ground, avoiding the moulting sickness of the
overworld -- probably radiation -- and had somehow managed to survive by
hiding beyond the Dark One's reach.

"Nothing much of use to us now," Jen surmised as Groddi finished
reading. "Are they all like that?"

"People who went investigating the Dark One typically did not come
back," Groddi replied defensively. "The metal creatures are fast and
deadly, with strange weapons unlike anything we've ever seen, and unlike
the Chosen One we have little hope of fighting back."

"Speaking of weapons..." Jen reminded him. "How are my blades coming
along?"

Groddi frowned, as he did whenever he began to wonder whether he really
was in charge anymore, but although Jen had made a series of requests of
him she had also kept to her side of the bargain and hadn't given the
new Agwaren overlord any tangible reason to distrust her. "The
bladecrafters are attempting to make weapons to match your requests.
Excepting kitchen utensils, they have never made such light, sharp
blades before."

Light and sharp compared to Agwaren weapons; Jen had thought to retain
more weight than in an Earth--sword in order to allow the weapons to
hack like an axe. The illustrations she'd given Groddi had been similar
to a falchion or machete, and she hoped that her new abilities would
allow her to figure out how to use one in each hand without accidentally
cutting them both off.

"They are certain to be finished soon, however," Groddi promised. "I
have impressed upon them the price of failure. It is fortunate that the
Dark One has not made any further advances while they dally. The Elders
suspect that the Dark One fears you, and rightly so, but I believe that
he is also wisely exercising caution; the Dark One did not become such
an ancient monster by being foolish."

"Perhaps he just ran out of robots?" Jen guessed. If *she* were the Dark
One, she'd be busy assembling an army to take care of the human who'd
killed the last one, and she'd be doing it as fast as she could before
the enemy arrived and kicked in the door. If Jen let that happen, she
guessed the results would be less than superb, and she'd only have
herself to blame. "On second thoughts, I think we really must go kick in
his door."

"The army is ready," Groddi replied. "As soon as you are ready, we will
march. So you must rest, and I shall take care of everything else."

"I'll heal on the way," Jen replied sharply. "I need those blades, and I
need something to ride and rest in as we go -- some sort of carriage,
perhaps. We can't let the Dark One finish preparing for us, and as you
said: he didn't get to where he was by being stupid."

‚ÅÇ

**Spot, docked at Hravin IV Observation Station**

**Chir**

The scent of meat was still fresh, a rich and bloody aroma that could
only be found in the dense flesh of Deathworlder beasts. Chir had gagged
when they'd first opened the stasis box and had shoved Layla inside, and
had cleverly decided not to be there when she was released. He had not
expected that the smell would stick to her fur, nor that he would
actually feel sorry for the traitor in her current miserable state, but
he made every effort not to show it.

"You know what we need to do?" Adrian mused as he herded the dishevelled
female into an unoccupied room, though he didn't wait for an answer. "We
need to have another barbeque. Use up the rest of that meat so I can go
hunting again."

"There is enough meat in there to last a Gaoian family for two months,"
Chir replied, trying not to think of the pile of raw, bright red flesh
that sat in careless piles in the stasis box.

"Yeah, so enough for me for a few days, and enough for Xayn for a few
minutes," Adrian said, shrugging. "That guy just can't get enough."

"He's a meat--eater," said Chir. "That's what he eats, and he hates
nutrient spheres as much as you do."

"May I ask what you're doing with me?" Layla interrupted, her voice
quiet and her eyes harrowed. Clearly being in the stasis box hadn't been
an enjoyable experience, and Chir suspected that being covered with
meat--juices was even less so. He truly enjoyed it when his enemies
received their comeuppance, but this was bordering on the cruel and
unusual, and he wondered where they'd keep her once they were done with
the interrogation.

"This is pretty straightforward," Adrian replied. "Right now my Corti
mate is setting up a lie--detector in your translator implant. I'm about
to dim the lights so I can see the warmth your brain is putting out.
Between the two of us, you've got a fucking snowball's chance in hell of
being able to bullshit us."

"I don't understand..." Layla replied, puzzled. "What's a 'snowball',
and what's a 'hell'?"

Chir chuckled to himself, he had also posed these questions and had
received completely nonsensical answers, but at least now he could look
like he knew what the human was talking about for once. "A 'snowball' is
a sphere of packed ice that humans hurl at each other with all their
might... for mutual enjoyment. 'Hell' is a mythological place that can
be hot, or cold, or have things sent or 'fucked' to it."

He looked up at Adrian, who was wearing an unusually solemn expression.
"Is that about everything?"

Adrian cleared his throat and nodded. "Must be."

Chir puffed up a little; it had taken a while, but he was finally
getting the hang of these human expressions. "In short, we will know if
you lie to us. This is Adrian Saunders, you might have heard of him? And
as you might have gathered he really doesn't like it when people don't
tell him the truth."

Not that he had a problem with lying to other people. They were lying
right now, to Layla, because none of the tests they'd run on Chir had
provided them with any immediately useful ways of telling if a Gaoian
was lying. Darragh had suggested a method he called 'Good Police
Officer, Bad Police Officer', and Adrian seemed to agree that this might
work if he didn't overplay it. Effectively this meant that Chir had to
be nice to Layla -- a concept he was not altogether pleased with -- and
that Adrian had to be a barely--restrained psychopath, which was not
always that far from the truth.

Playing his part, Adrian looked away and sniffed unhappily. "Yeah..." he
drawled out, "I accidentally crushed the last bloke who made shit up.
Looked like a really painful way to die."

"I really don't want to die," Layla replied immediately, unable to stop
staring at the galaxy's most individualised force of destruction, and
Chir had to admit that the human was doing a very good job of being
incredibly intimidating. "Can I just tell you everything I know
instead?"

"Don't worry," Chir said kindly, a little surprised that she had broken
so easily but not wanting to deviate from the script in case it was
simply a ploy. "I'll keep you safe... but I just need some information.
Like your employer's name."

Layla regarded him strangely. "Iridis Industries... or at least, they
were the head of the consortium. They banded together to kill Adrian
Saunders and destroy you, Chir. But I can tell you who--"

"We already know who they are," Adrian growled, leaning in menacingly.
"And we already blew the fucking shit right out of them."

He held up a datapad displaying images and reports of the attacks on
Cavaras, all of them already being blamed on Chir and Adrian. "Just like
any other orbital bombardment, but using life--pods with their own
people inside... I do have a spare, though, if you're interested in
going for a ride..."

"I'm sure it won't come to that," Chir interrupted. "She's cooperating,
Adrian! You only have to look at the readings to see that she's telling
the truth!"

"Then why hasn't she told us about the children?!" Adrian demanded,
growling at Chir from such a close distance that even a seasoned veteran
of several wars would have taken a step back.

"I'm sure she was getting to that!" Chir replied, his voice breaking in
a slight, involuntary panic.

Layla nodded her head fervently, eyes wide in terror and confusion. "I
was getting to that! I did some checking, and I engaged the services of
an information specialist to find out where they were. Her name was
Vakno -- a Corti female -- but I didn't hear back from her before you
grabbed me!"

There was a beep from the datapad, and Adrian frowned and passed it over
to Chir. It was easy to forget sometimes that the Human Disaster had
absolutely no ability to read anything but his native language and the
defunct V'Straki script, and that the datapad was little more than a
prop in his hands.

The message was concise, however, and as expected it came from Askit:
*All data is encrypted, and will take time to break. Need date when she
engaged Vakno's services.*

"When did you 'engage the services' of this information specialist?" he
asked Layla. "We need the data as per the Dominion calendar."

The best Layla could give them was a small date range, and Askit made
his frustrations quite clear on a subsequent message that Chir
immediately deleted. They kept up the pointless questioning for a short
time longer, although it became increasingly apparent that the ex--spy
had little other information to give them, but Chir finally received the
message he'd been waiting for.

*Verified. Her story checks out.*

"It seems that we have that information now," Chir replied, and felt a
pang of pain and anger as he saw hope light up Layla's eyes. "We'll help
them, but not for *you*, Layla. We're *done* with you."

"Please," she begged, "just tell me where they are."

Chir looked down at the datapad again and waited for the answer. Then he
looked up at Adrian, unhappy with the answer.

"What's it say?" Adrian asked, breaking character now that they had
everything they wanted.

"It says 'We're not going to like the answer to that.'" Chir read.
"Although I'd much prefer to have read the *actual* location."

Prompted by his words, a new message appeared. This time it was just a
single word, but Chir groaned; he really didn't like the answer.

*Perfection.*

‚ÅÇ

**Hierarchy Communications Link**

**Three**

The latest news from his operative had sparked quite the argument over
the communications link, details on an attack on Point Zero were nearly
as important as Saunders' apparent ignorance over the fate of the
Zhadersil.

**+0003+**: I think you're attributing him with a higher capacity for
deception than he is actually capable of. There is no indication that
Saunders suspects he's being spied on, and there's nothing to suggest
that any of them knows anything about the disappearance of that
starship.

**+0009+**: If that is truly the case, then we need only obtain the
details of how they intend to assault Point Zero. We can prepare for it,
and finally rid ourselves of this problem human.

**+0002+**: Orders will be conveyed to fleet--masters: Point Zero will
be protected from Adrian Saunders with maximum force. As this single
point of failure has been identified by our enemies, I shall also
commence a project to more evenly distribute our network, as this
single--point of failure.

**+0009+**: Then that is that. Saunders will be destroyed, and we shall
be made stronger through his own efforts. Ironic, when you consider it.

The only thing that Three was considering was that gloating before the
fact was foolish, but he was confident that Nine would eventually
receive what he was earning. It would be nice if Saunders could take the
over--confident idiot with him when he expired.

*User 0130 has joined the channel*

**+0009+**: Ah, and here's our venerable relic, come to tell us all
about her lack of success.

**+0130+**: How did you know that?

**+0022+**: It seems I owe you five credits, Nine.

**+0002+**: This is not a matter to be gambling over, you two! We have
identified your problem human as Jennifer Delaney, best known for being
substantial problem for the galaxy in general.

**+0130+**: That 'substantial problem' has eliminated almost my entire
Abrogator swarm! My forces had no problem in subduing this entire planet
when I was first assigned to this world, but this single *human* was
able to crush almost all of the units I had left. Your information was
*useless*, Nine! She has now raised a force against me, and I do not
have the ability to strike back with my remaining drones!

**+0009+**: The information relates to standard human parameters.
Jennifer Delaney has probably been a more significant threat to galactic
stability than Adrian Saunders, if only for her ability and proclivity
to actually organise militant groups.

**+0130+**: I am uploading my combat report for your perusal. How did
you identify her?

**+0009+**: These images confirm it, but shall we call it an educated
guess? I'm sure that we will spare some help so that we can finally kill
her.

Shortsighted as usual; Nine was little more than a blunt instrument, and
it was shocking that he had ever achieved single--digit status.
Apparently all things were possible, given time.

**+0003+**: I suggest that capturing Jennifer Delaney would offer
substantial benefits over simply killing her. Saunders values her life,
and that gives us leverage if we can't manage to actually stop him from
destroying Point Zero.

**+0002+**: You think he can fight his way through a surprise attack
from the bulk of our forces? He may have killed a thousand Hunters, but
*he* was the one with the element of surprise in that instance.

**+0003+**: I think that we should discard a tool just because it's
unlikely to be needed. We can 'rescue' Delaney, and keep her in our care
until the threat has passed. If nothing else it may give us the time we
need to reduce the impact of losing Point Zero.

**+0130+**: Then I take it that I can expect assistance?

**+0002+**: Do not fear, One--Thirty. We will be sending you assistance
at the earliest opportunity. You need only delay until we can provide an
extraction.

The outline of a plan had been drawn, and soon the details would be well
underway. Three knew from experience that this would be a far more
complicated strategy than the galaxy had usually demanded of them, but
he was confident that they would rise to the challenge. In the distant
past, when their kind had been the tools of the original Igraens, they
had held the essence of flexibility that allowed them to survive the
death of civilisation, and Three was sure that essence remained in spite
of the ages and forms now left behind them.

The Hierarchy was nothing if not adaptable.

‚ÅÇ

**Hravin IV Observation Station**

**Keffa**

Grznk and Askit were busy inside of Spot -- working to support Adrian
and Chir who were busy questioning that Gaoian whore -- and that meant
that there wasn't much else to do but kick back and stare up at the big
green orb through the ceiling viewport. It was impressive, although
she'd shrugged it off when Adrian had mentioned it earlier, but that
didn't mean you wanted to look at it all the time. It gave her more time
to think than she wanted, because whenever she had time to think it
meant that her thoughts would naturally turn to all those things she
wished she hadn't done, or those things she wished she had. She wasn't
even clear on what the plans were, but she was sure that somebody would
fill her in while they were doing them, and it didn't seem like there
was much demand for her input.

That was why, against her better judgement, she had decided to accept
the offer from the V'Straki to teach her and Darragh some kind of card
game. This was easier said than done, because the creature that somehow
managed to smell worse than bad meat had a tendency to ramble on bizarre
tangents, and was likely what her mother had actually been referring to
all those times she'd accused Keffa of having 'the A.D.D.'

"I must warn you that I have now mastered this game!" Xayn noted as he
shuffled the deck by smearing cards all over the table and randomly
re--sorting them in a long, arduous process that was difficult to watch.
"But you must remember that while this game is called 'Poke--Her', there
is to be no poking! Adrian was very clear on this rule!"

Keffa turned to look at Darragh for an answer to this, but his only
reply was a subtle shrug and shake of the head that indicated she
shouldn't start questioning it. She had the feeling that this was not,
in fact, an official rule, but was instead an invention to stop Xayn
from saying or doing things that Adrian didn't want him to.

She picked up the five cards she'd been given, and briefly studied the
crudely drawn pictures to figure out what they were supposed to be. "So
how do you win?" she asked. "I only have... four guys wearing crowns,
and also a two."

With a noise and expression of disgust, Darragh threw his own cards onto
the table. "Fecking hell..." he said, "that's got to be what you call
'Beginner's Luck'."

"You have a set of four of a kind, with odds of one in four--thousand,
one--hundred and sixty--four," Xayn informed her. "This is what Adrian
calls 'Total Bullshit', and if we were playing for currency you would
have experienced a net gain."

Regarding the winning hand again, Keffa smiled. "I think I *like* this
game. Can we start playing for currency?"

"I do not have any currency," Xayn replied. "Nor do I have many clothes
to remove, which Adrian informs me is a popular variant."

"As far as I can tell, he's basically wearing a onesie," Darragh added.
"And I can't say I really want to play strip poker with a lizard--man; a
line's got to be drawn *somewhere*."

The timely return of Adrian and Chir saved them from needing to endure
any further instruction from the V'Straki, and as the lying, Gaoian
bitch--queen wasn't accompanying them it was probable they'd stuck her
back with the meat. Knowing the reaction of most species to piles of cut
up bloody flesh, she'd probably find it very unenjoyable, which Keffa
judged as a good thing.

"So..." Darragh began. "Things go how you wanted?"

"We're going back to Perfection," Adrian replied bluntly. "Turns out her
kids were there all this fucking time. Then I guess we've got to drop
them back on Gao."

"For that I think we'll simply hand them over to the first patrol
cruiser we meet," Chir replied. "That should save us some time, and will
save me from being asked to go talk to important people who don't agree
with my way of doing things."

"Maybe you could avoid stealing their fecking ship this time," Darragh
suggested, "and shooting everybody in the dick? I don't know what the
deal is with that, but I'll have you know it's really uncomfortable to
watch!"

"Noted," Chir replied with a frown, "but I promise nothing, and
unfortunately we're going to have to work without Adrian's help on this
one."

"What?" Keffa asked. "Why can't we?"

Aware that her sudden outburst was putting her on the spot, she quickly
changed gears to push her line of questioning down a more logical path.
"I mean, surely having the 'Human Disaster' with us would help put the
odds in our favour?"

Adrian shook his head. "After my last visit they're going to be very
quick to respond with all the force they can muster. With that in mind,
I'll be causing a distraction that will get the heat off you. It should
let you have an easier time of it, but if you happen to find a Corti
ship with a sealed--FTL drive I'd really appreciate it if you could
borrow it for me."

"Don't you already have a Corti drive?" Darragh asked. "As well as a
regular drive..."

"It's for a project I'm working on," Adrian replied, but didn't go into
more detail. "Don't want to get you involved unless I have to."

"We'll be dealing with the children while Adrian works on whatever he's
doing," Chir continued. "As you've said, his ship has a sealed--FTL
drive so his travel times are considerably less than ours. If all goes
according to plan, we'll be seeing each other soon enough."

"And if it doesn't?" Keffa asked.

"When plans go wrong is when people die," Chir replied,
matter--of--factly. "But we're no strangers to dangerous situations, and
if things don't go how we like we'll just have to make sure that we're
not amongst the casualties."

Keffa frowned, not happy at the way things were panning out. She was
fairly certain that she'd be resuming her role of 'plucky pilot girl'
for this mission, and that there was absolutely no chance of finding her
way aboard Spot to fill that same job while Trycrur was still around.
Her best bet was to help them get through their respective missions, and
do a good enough job that she'd really get noticed, so with just a
moment spent to refocus herself, she began to think of things to help
them along. "At least tell me that we'll be staying in contact this time
around?"

"That's a good point," Adrian replied, sharing a glance with Chir. "I'll
have Trix work something out with Keffa. Regular check--ins and meeting
points in case we lose communications and need to find each other again,
that sort of thing. Good thinking, Keff."

She hoped her cheeks weren't flushing, though she felt the burning in
her ears as the praise fell on them. She wilfully ignored it, setting it
aside until she was alone and didn't need to worry about other people
noticing.

"Don't worry," she assured him. "We'll put together a basic plan, and
something more detailed to be conveyed when we next meet. I assume
you're going now?"

The two leaders both nodded, though the initial uncertainty in the look
they traded told her that this was not something they'd thought to
discuss with each other before getting here.

"Like Chir said," Adrian replied for the both of them, "we shouldn't be
sticking around this place for longer than we have to."

‚ÅÇ

**Record 573--Black--13**\
*+Recovered from C11--Orange--712--Yellow--6+*

"Those lights," Vivrez whispered from off--camera, zooming in on the
glowing sparks that moved so energetically around the summit of the
mountain. "They are nothing like anything else on Beyurke, Vassa!"

The camera turned towards Vassa to record her reaction, although whether
this was on purpose or by habit it was impossible to say. She stood
there in evening's fading light, dumbfounded as she stared up at the
lights, and it took a few moments before she absently gave her answer.
"I didn't believe... Vivrez, I'm sorry... maybe you were right."

"Don't worry," he replied. "I know it sounded crazy, but..."

He turned the camera back up to the top of the mountain. "Well... it's
easy to see why you didn't believe me."

"They're so high up though..." Vassa observed, and the camera turned
back to record her. This time she was regarding it -- or at least Vivrez
-- with a sad frown. "I don't think we can make it..."

"Vassa--" Vivrez began.

Vassa interrupted him with a raised hand, it was full of her own hair.
"I *know* I can't make it, Vivrez. Look at me, I'm dying. I'm *already*
dead, and I'm just too stubborn to lie down, but even I can't see myself
climbing up there on force of will."

There was silence for a moment, and Vassa's gaze refocused on the
camera. She dropped the hair. "We should try and draw them down here."

"That's a good idea," Vivrez replied. "We could build a fire... a big
fire, to attract them down here."

Turning away, Vassa began to search the ground. "I'll gather the wood,"
she said, "if you'd like to help?"

Vivrez moved towards her, reaching a hand out and clasping her shoulder
to stop her in what she was doing. She started, looking up at him, and
shooting unhappy looks at the camera. "Vivrez, what--"

"In the morning, Vassa," he said gently. "We don't know if they're
friendly, and even with all our guns we'll still need our strength to
fight alien invaders."

She considered this for a moment, then replied with a resolute nod.
"Alright. Now turn that off and let's find some shelter. If they're
hostile, I don't want to be found while I'm sleeping."

"Don't worry," Vivrez replied, "I saw a cave not far away. It's
sheltered, but we might have to huddle."

Vassa snorted. "As usually, you're disgusting."

**End Record**

‚ÅÇ

**Cavaras, Corti Directorate Core World**

**Laphor Metmin**

The Corti Core world was in chaos. Mere days ago it had been subjected
to an attack that would have rocked any border world; the kind of
destruction that had been rendered here was the variety that would
plunge most core worlds into complete anarchy as everybody scrambled for
self--preservation, but since this was a Corti planet the worst that had
occurred was a significant disruption to every aspect of their lives.

Laphor Metmin stared down at the sites of destruction that had been
visited upon the planet as they passed over the cityscape. It was sloppy
work, with impact craters replacing the headquarters of several major
corporations, but she thought it was the kind of work that suited
somebody with the title of 'Human Disaster'.

Six--Skulls Zripob disagreed, and he made the extent of this belief
known by hurling his half--empty cup of guimeri juice across the room
with startling force. He turned off the video feed and rose from his
seat to regard Laphor with his calmness fully returned. "This is what
they call 'news', is it?"

"It *sounds* reasonable, though, doesn't it?" she asked. "Given his
history on this planet?"

"You forget that I *know* Adrian Saunders," Zripob replied. "He leaves a
mess, but he has never before caused such significant death and
destruction of people unrelated to his interests."

He raised a hand to interrupt the query that he knew was coming. "And
Chir would simply loathe this kind of wanton destruction. It's a pride
thing, but it is predictable. I am certain that this was not caused by
either of them."

"Yet there are reports of Adrian Saunders having been on the planet at
the time," Laphor reminded him. "There were countless eye--witnesses to
his visit to the markets, and the trader who served him said the Human
Disaster had taken sets of non--functional clothing without paying."

Zripob's lip curled in a cold smile. "That I *can* believe. And it's
possible that his presence here was not unrelated to the attacks, but we
lack the information to make that kind of guess. The question is: where
have they gone from here?"

"The authorities have no information on that," Laphor told him. She was
fairly confident that they were truly ignorant, because there was
certainly no reason that anybody in the local government would be
willing to conceal that sort of information, and especially not with the
kind of price Laphor was offering. All avenues she'd searched had turned
over exactly no useful information, and there was the very real
possibility that her enquiries had been noticed by someone worth
avoiding. There was certainly no need, however, to bother Six--Skulls
Zripob with unfortunate details like that. "They won't be here, though.
We could offer a bounty for information?"

He nodded, slowly at first and then with more approval. "Good idea. See
that it is done, but don't get too extravagant -- we don't want to
encourage anybody to get creative with the concept of 'information'.
Also make sure you notice anything that might be considered 'unusual',
and forward it to my desk. Adrian Saunders has a way of causing all
varieties of trouble, be it subtle or overt, and I've been studying him
for long enough to guess which incidents were his."

She bowed slightly, stepped aside as he exited her office, and waited
for the doors to close before she muttered her quiet abuse and
indignation at the way he moved around the ship as if he owned it. She
didn't much care for the way that her crew were increasingly listening
to his orders without them first being filtered through her, either, and
that particular issue was progressing at an alarming rate.

But she was a good soldier, even if she was a paid one, and she would
continue to follow his instruction for as long as he was able to pay
her. If that situation changed, however, he would find himself outside
of her ship faster than a wuko in a foffin chase, and she didn't much
care whether there was an atmosphere out there at the time.

But for now she was a good soldier, and that's why, instead of kicking
the dangerous psychopath off her ship, she went over to her desk and
began placing calls.

‚ÅÇ

**Out of sight, vicinity of Cavaras**

**Tjheth, Irzht Clansman of the Eye**

Following the human was easy, but catching up with him was proving to be
significantly more difficult. This galaxy's news networks were well
established, and a disruptive influence such as this 'Adrian Saunders'
was always headline news. The automated information scrapers in the
scout ship's systems had no issue in detecting these reports as soon as
they appeared, but the human did not have the tendency to stay around
after causing trouble and was generally gone by the time the news feeds
even put their stories to air.

Tjheth had to admit, his quarry was more challenging than he had been
expecting, and potentially entirely paranoid judging from the apparently
random movements throughout the galaxy. It was true that there were
several groups now trying to track them down, but that seemed only
natural when the standard result of your visitation was a state of
emergency.

He checked the communications log again, bothered by the time it was
taking for a response from the Administrators. He'd received an
acknowledgement almost immediately, an assurance that his message was
important and that he could expect a response within five cycles, but
while he was still technically within that time frame he'd also hoped
that, given the nature of his report, his enquiries would have warranted
some priority.

The Ship Computer interrupted his line of thought, intoning its
notification in the deep, pleasantly abrasive voice that was in use
across the Empire. "New information received."

He waved his hand absently in the direction of the nearest camera.
"Advise."

"Corti Directorate Security reports unscheduled access in a low--value
research station," the computer reported. "They suspect pirates,
squatters, or simply administrative error. I have already
cross--referenced this with the owning corporation and found nothing to
suggest legitimate causes. This region also sees little pirate activity,
the facility is too small to serve as a functional base of operations,
and too far from anywhere to be of use to squatters."

Tjheth folded his hands across his tummy and gently drummed with his
fingers. This was certainly out of the ordinary, and there was a
possibility that this was the human. It had to be at least somewhat
likely if the Computer had seen fit to advise him of it in the first
place, and that meant it was worth checking out. "Let's go and take a
look."

"By your command," the Computer replied, accepting the input. "Having
predicted this command, I had already mapped out a flight--path and
readied FTL. This is estimated to have saved you (3.2 minutes)."

Tjheth nodded, it was always pleasing to save time. "Be certain to
charge the Cradle; this individual is known to be quite dangerous and I
don't want any accidents."

"Cradle is already fully charged in anticipation of your needs," the
Computer replied. "This is estimated to have saved you (6.3 minutes)."

Irritated, Tjheth clucked quietly to himself. It was very convenient to
have a Digital Intelligence capable of weighing probabilities and ready
to respond to his every need, but it was also somewhat annoying and
unsettling to have his commands immediately met because they'd all been
completely anticipated. It was amusingly ironic, looked at from another
angle, that in an age when every order or desire could be immediately
fulfilled by support systems, the only thing he'd want was for it to all
be marginally less efficient.

"Computer," he said, reclining back into his favourite seat. "Open
report: Somebody Has Been A Naughty Hatchling. Append new entry and
timestamp."

He waited for the computer to indicate that his order had been accepted,
then proceeded with his entry. "Remain in pursuit of human 'Adrian
Saunders', and have received a fortunate lead early in my investigation.
Vessel is currently on an intercept vector, and will eliminate any
detected human shortly after arrival. There is no indication that the
technology has spread beyond this single individual and spacecraft, but
a thorough scan will be initiated as soon as we identify the human's
spacecraft. End of entry."

Now all he had to do was wait and, in keeping with his task as an
observer, watch as the human was dealt with. Only (eighteen minutes) had
to pass before this interesting chapter in his observation would finally
come to its end, and he'd be able to return to his anointed duties.

"Computer," he said, considering how best to pass the time, and what
would best accompany the death of this dangerous individual, "what have
we in the way of snacks?"

‚ÅÇ

**Hravin IV Observation Station**\
**Adrian Saunders**

"The human female releases a scent in your presence," Xayn informed
Adrian once Chir and the crew of the Devastator had departed. "I do not
like it."

"She's a little young for me mate," Adrian replied, running through one
last check in case there was something left worth salvaging in the small
facility.

"You also emit a scent," Xayn continued. "It is thick and husky, and
reminds me of fur."

Adrian rolled his eyes, opening a drawer and poking through the contents
for anything of interest. "I said she was too young, I didn't say I was
fucking blind."

"Amongst the V'Straki, the age of the female made no difference,
provided she was mature--"

Adrian raised his hand and Xayn stopped talking. "I don't think I really
want to hear where you're headed with this."

"They were kept in colonies, to serve the species by increasing our
number," Xayn finished. "It was efficient. But not, I think, preferable
to working beside them when there were no longer enough males to do the
physical labour."

Frowning, Adrian could only shake his head and sigh. "Well... I guess
it's nice to be proven... wrong?"

Askit interrupted the terrible conversation without preamble. "Get back
in here, we need to go. Your ridiculous sensor system is *barely*
picking up something huge on an inbound trajectory, and it's moving in
*fast*."

Adrian slid the drawer back in, and motioned to Xayn to follow. They
hurried back towards the airlocks that connected the ship and the
research station, and began the process of transitioning from one to the
other. "How big is 'big'?"

"A lot bigger than that space station we destroyed," Askit replied. "Or
at least a lot more massive. You know how it works."

Xayn looked at Adrian, his expression serious. "Moving something *that*
large at such a high warp speed... it would take a lot of power. These
reactors are insufficient."

Adrian frowned, recalling how many contemporary reactors had been needed
to get the Zhadersil moving at anything like its intended velocity. "I
know. Do you think it's the Hierarchy?"

"I don't see who else it *could* be," Askit replied, plainly worried by
his overly--curt tone. "But to be honest, I really don't want to wait
around and make a confirmation on that."

"You'll get no argument from me, mate," Adrian agreed, and hurried into
Spot once the airlock completed its routine. "Let's slow them down. Hit
them with a fucking Gravity Spike when they're close enough."

"Spike activated," Trix immediately responded, which meant that the
larger ship was far closer than Adrian would have liked it to be. "Warp
field has been interdicted, inbound ship is now reduced to sub--light
speeds."

Adrian hurried over to his seat, and Xayn joined him as co--pilot -- not
that he had much experience, but he was a Deathworlder and much of the
knack for piloting these ships lay in having quick reflexes -- while
Askit sat at his terminal. Adrian glanced over at him, and they shared a
worried look. "What's it look like?"

"It's cloaked," Askit replied. "I've had to get creative. Fortunately
the research facility is basically one big sensor system, and all I've
had to do is retarget it. It'd be best if we got the *fuck* out of here
before we ran the data."

Adrian nodded once, then turned his attention back to what he was
doing... which was, now that he thought about it, absolutely nothing.
Even in the most basic of ships, flight was generally an automated
affair, but aboard Spot it was Trix who did all the flying and as a
digitised mind she could do it better than any computer or any physical
being. Right now she was pushing the gravity drive hard enough that he
could feel the inertial compensators struggling to keep up, and the
small moon was diminishing behind them.

"FTL is charged," Trix relayed. "I'm going to have to drop the Gravity
Spike if we want it to kick in."

Adrian looked over to Askit. "Any reason we shouldn't?"

"Absolutely not!" the little Corti replied with an emphatic shake of his
head. "In fact I'd--"

Trix interrupted him. "It didn't work."

"Explain why!" Askit snapped.

"As soon as I lower the Spike, an enormous, but faint warp field
immediately appears," Trix replied, sounding distinctly bothered by it.
"I hit it with another Spike because it seemed unusual. Now I'm running
calculations on what to do."

Adrian traded a look with Xayn, and while he was no expert on V'Straki
expressions it seemed as though the lizardman was as troubled as Adrian
himself. "The weapon?"

"I'm not sure," Xayn replied. "I have only ever read the technical
specifications. There was no use for us to have that device on a planet,
even as a scorched--earth weapon. My father taught me that it required a
full reactor to sufficiently power it fully, and that meant it was only
in service aboard the larger warships."

"Are you talking about the weapon aboard the Zhadersil?" Askit asked.
"The one you destroyed?"

Adrian nodded. "But that one... you can't direct the radiation, it hits
fucking *everything*. Why would they be trying to use it here?"

"That's a big ship," Askit replied. "Maybe they built it so they'd be
safe. Or maybe they don't care, because they're able to back up their
minds? If this is the same weapon, we're going to have to get out of
range before we can get away."

"I'm afraid that's not possible," Trix replied bleakly. "I've just
measured the field... it extends further than our Gravity Spike."

"So we are going to die," Askit mused. "I don't really want to do that."

He laid out the data pad for them all to see, showing them a picture
that appeared to have been cobbled together from several sources. It was
poorly rendered, but the general shape was obvious -- that of a diamond
-- and it was clearly absolutely gargantuan in size. "At least," he said
bitterly, "we get to see what our enemy looks like."

Xayn touched the screen, frowning as much as it was possible for a
lizardman to frown, and clicked his claws against the metal casing with
clear worry. "This..." he said, trailing off. "I know of it."

"We'll talk about it later," Adrian told him, setting his own course.
"Right now I'm a bit fucking busy saving our arses. From what I've
gathered, some would say that what we're about to do is fucking
suicidal."

Askit looked at the flight path, assessing it, and visibly paled, which
was admittedly quite the achievement for someone already on the lighter
side of grey. "Yes..." he said slowly, turning his eyes back towards
Adrian with deliberate slowness, "and what would *you* say of it?"

Adrian grinned at him, dimly aware that his adrenaline was running hot
and that he might not be making the best kinds of decisions, but also
not caring one whit. "Mate," he said, "*I* say it's only suicidal if it
kills us."
:::
