# S - Hot Property
***Salvage***

---

**Date Point 2 Years 7 Months After Vancouver**

**Private World of Cimbrean**

Jennifer Delaney. Mid--twenties, space--babe pirate queen and
interstellar adventurer. Currently experiencing nothing short of pure
ecstasy mixed in with a hint of rapturous elation.

"Oh my god..." she moaned, her eyes rolling back in bliss as she slipped
her body beneath the steaming water and began trailing her fingers back
and forth through the heated liquid as though she needed to prove it was
really there. "An actual bath!"

It had been so long since she\'d been able to manage anything like it.
Earth was the last time she\'d been able to enjoy the feeling of
submerging herself in hot water, and she had to admit she\'d been
thinking of Earth less and less as time went on. Jen had changed, and
even if they lifted the barrier tomorrow she doubted she\'d have
returned. Earth wasn\'t home anymore.

"We should really get one of these for the ship," she said to herself,
leaning back into the water. Never mind that there was nowhere to put a
bath on the ship, or that the water supply would by no means adequate
for successive bathing adventures, it was for the moment a fun dream to
have, and in the currently bleak state of the galaxy those were hard to
come by.

There was a knock on the door, and Jen eyed the kinetic gun that rested
by the edge of the bath. "If you\'re hoping to come in you better be
female!" she called out. "Otherwise I\'ve got a gun and I\'m not afraid
to use it."

That was true as well, over the last four months they\'d spent a couple
short weeks at the colony Chir had recommended before being forced to
move on, although at the time Jen had been eager to find out what had
happened to Adrian. They\'d gone to the coordinates that had been
broadcast and found it a debris field of broken, drifting Hunter
vessels, but no sign of the Zhadersil. With no trace of the whereabouts
of the vessel they had quickly shelved the search in favour of finding
somewhere new to lay low.

Laying low had transformed, somehow, into becoming the scourge of Celzi
space, and now they were feared by traders and pirates alike. The former
for their ruthless capability, and the latter for the brutal way in
which they put down their inept competition. Celzi space had never had
fewer pirates plying its trade lanes, and at the same time those trade
routes had never been quite so thoroughly disrupted as they now were.
Even the well--established and protected lanes had been subjected to the
treatment, a situation that had shaken confidence throughout the
Alliance.

Jen had proved surprisingly good at taking the lead for their
operations, and with Trycrur\'s assistance they\'d fashioned her an
appropriately dangerous combat suit. It was the first in the galaxy like
it, as far as Trycrur was aware, but Jen had based the idea on several
movies and popular comic books. When she\'d suggested that everyone get
one, however, Trycrur had disappointed her with a long explanation on
why anyone else would be crushed by the weight of the suit itself. That
would be, to quote Adrian, \'far from ideal\'.

The small side door to the bathing hall opened and Trycrur entered with
the calm attitude of a Rauwryhr female who has just gotten enough sleep
for the first time in weeks. "That is an interesting way to wash
yourself."

"It\'s a *sublime* way to wash myself," Jen replied ardently,
withdrawing her hand from the gun and using it to free her hair instead.
"Don\'t you dare tell me we have to go!"

"Not at all," Trycrur said, seating herself on the edge of the bathing
basin without getting too close to the water. Jen had gathered that this
was not a form of bathing with which Rauwryhr were comfortable, and that
they were deeply phobic against any form of submersion.

"I thought you might like to know that the crew have finished securing
the colony," Trycrur said. "Or whatever it\'s intended to be."

"Given the accommodation," Jen said, gesturing to the bathing room and
its ludicrously ornate furnishings, "I would suggest it\'s some sort of
luxurious private mansion."

"Whatever it is," Trycrur said, "we haven\'t found any of the former
inhabitants, or any reason for the place to have been abandoned, except
for..."

"Except for Hunters," Jen finished, looking around her surroundings with
a new level of discomfort. She\'d learned to despise those creatures as
much as the others seemed to fear them, although she did maintain a
healthy level of caution as well. She wasn\'t like Adrian, a gung--ho
psychopath who spread death like marmite. She was a normal person... who
was now in charge of the most talked--about group of criminals in the
whole Celzi Alliance.

She decided that \'normal\' was entirely relative out in the depths of
space.

"So," Jen said, "since there\'s nobody around to claim it, perhaps we
could extend our stay?"

"There\'s no reason why we couldn\'t," Trycrur replied. "This is a very
comfortable Class Four planet that hasn\'t managed to create any other
sentient life. For all intents and purposes it\'s ours to do with as we
please, especially as the Celzi Alliance has bigger things on their
hands than \'liberating\' the homes of rich people."

"Then I think we\'ll at least turn it into our base of operations," Jen
told her. "Make arrangements for that, Trix, I\'m tired of spending
weeks at a time aboard that smelly ship and living in squalor."

Trycrur seemed pleased by this. "I could get certainly get used to
*this* world. It\'s hard out in space where there\'s no room to flap
your wings."

"It will also give you the space to do things you haven\'t had room for
since we left the Zhadersil," Jen said. "I know you\'ve been wanting to
get back into making things."

Trycrur sighed. "Yes, but there\'s not really a proper machining lab
here, just a basic workshop for keeping spacecraft working."

"Maybe we could steal the equipment next?" Jen suggested, and was glad
to see Trycrur laugh. It had been a trying few months since their escape
from the Zhadersil, and they\'d had hardly any chance to let off steam.

Jen really thought this place was going to be good for them. She was
feeling better already.

---

**The Black Star, inbound to Cimbrean**

It had been only (three months) since Zripob had rejoined the crew of
the Zhadersil, drawn to the name that had only just qualified for a
footnote in the Dominion news networks. It had appeared that the
Dominion had been keeping something quiet, but the fact that it had
attained any publicity at all had been cause for his great interest.

(Four months) ago he had gone looking for the Zhadersil where he had
last known it to be, the orbital factory in Irbzrk, and had discovered a
populace filled with equal parts relief and terror. The Zhadersil was
gone, taken by Adrian Saunders to lure away the Swarm of Swarms, a
tactic that had been entirely successful. They had been less informative
on the subject of the other crew members, and it had only been through
the most enthusiastic investigation methods that he had discovered the
details of what had happened to them.

Zripob had followed, and after nearly a full (month) of giving chase, he
had finally caught up to them during a raid on a Celzi industrial
materials station. Amongst all of the weapons--fire it had been quite
the reunion, and it brought a smile to his face even now.

Today he was set to make rendezvous with their newest acquisition, a
luxurious household on a private world. It had been picked clean of
occupants by Hunters -- that was how they made all of their easiest
acquisitions these days, ever since Jen had figured out how to locate
them through their own equipment -- and it would be up to Zripob to set
up whatever was required to defend it. To that end he and the crew of
the Black Star had been \'shopping\' out on the richer trade routes for
vessels that could hold their own in a fight. They\'d stripped the
weapons and materials from about five freighter vessels before they\'d
been driven off by a Celzi cruiser that had gotten too interested.

That would still be more than enough to defend a single household,
although Zripob was not a strong believer in the possibility of ever
having *too many* weapons; a limit on weapons was a limit on options.

He called in his position as he slipped into an entry vector, making
sure his men were all strapped in and ready for the bumpy bit. Class
Four planets were comfortable -- very comfortable, as far as he was
concerned, his race, the \'Chehnasho\', had arisen on a Class Seven
world -- but that didn\'t mean their upper atmospheres were *always* a
smooth ride.

"You\'re back soon," Chir commented over the communications link as the
Black Star made its descent. "Did everything go well?"

"We work fast," Zripob replied. "The Chehnasho have little time for
inefficiency, you know?"

"You hit trouble," Chir interpreted in good humour.

"Celzi Cruiser came looking where it wasn\'t wanted," Zripob told him
with a croaky chuckle. "We gave it one of Trycrur\'s farewell gifts to
give them something to think about while we embraced the wiser option."

"And what about the Hunters?" Chir asked. "Any success stories?"

"Tell Jen her software takes all the fun out of killing those bastards,"
Zripob replied. "They get all confused when their communication implants
start playing pro--human propaganda. By the time they figure out they
need to actually *talk* to one another they\'re normally \'neck deep in
the shit\'."

Chir hummed thoughtfully. "And what of people? Did you save any?"

Zripob laughed his croaky laugh again. "We did! They were very surprised
when we turned around and robbed them afterwards, but since they got out
of it with their lives I think they weren\'t too sad about it!"

"So should I be expecting to see the name of \'Zhadersil\' on their news
networks any time soon?"

Croaking out a sigh, Zripob didn\'t feel like that was very likely. "I
tell them every time, but you know how hard their government is cracking
down on that sort of news. Only one of the traders I hit even knew about
us, so while news *is* spreading, it\'s spreading slowly."

"That\'ll have to do," Chir said, "unless we can manage to do something
they can\'t hide."

"If Adrian was here, the name of \'Zhadersil\' would be known across the
Alliance," Zripob mused. "That crazy bastard would have them shitting
themselves over what he\'d do next!"

A humorless chuckle was Chir\'s reply. They both knew that wherever
Adrian was, he was unlikely to be in a state where he\'d be able to do
*anything*, let alone lead some kind of campaign of terror, and given
the options when it came to Hunters they\'d all hoped he\'d managed to
give them something to think about before dying.

The other option was too awful to consider.

"I\'ve readied a meadow for you," Chir finally said as the Black Star
passed under the thousand klick mark. "Coordinates should be on your
screen now. Put down there, and I\'ll have some men ready to start
moving your cargo."

"Right you are," Zripob replied, dropping the coordinates into the
auto--nav system. "I\'ll see you ground--side, Chir."

The Gaoian male only grunted his reply.

---

**Infinite Convergence, Corti Directorate Mobile Research Station**

"This is foolishness," Irdin told his superior, the esteemed Dominion
Councilor Hrbrd. "The effort we have already expended upon this
enterprise has already exceeded estimates!"

Councilor Hrbrd sat patiently in his office chair, waiting while his
subordinate finished his tirade. This office, like every one he made his
own these days, had been speedily reconfigured to match that of the one
he kept on the Corti homeworld, the office he considered to be his
\'home\'. They were supposed to be an identical facsimile, but it had
always seemed to Hrbrd that there was a way to tell, be it in the
texture of the metal of his desk, the details on the abstract art
formations that decorated his walls, or in the projection of a sunset
from a famous balcony that had once existed on his homeworld. There was
always something, and in this one it was the projection. Too much green.
It was distracting.

"Estimates are made to be exceeded, Irdin," Hrbrd said with some
disdain. "I have said *no*, and my answer will remain that way. You have
no knowledge of humans whatsoever, and yet you presume to give *me*
advice?"

"I *am* your advisor, Councilor," Irdin protested, "therefore I will
*advise*, and I will tell you that you are being a fool when you are
being a fool!"

"This is *not* foolishness, *Advisor*," Hrbrd informed him, his voice
remaining calm and factual while his Advisor grew ever increasingly
frustrated. "This is a strategy intended to deal with a human. A very...
difficult human who has already been responsible for the deaths of a
number of Corti sent by the Directorate, do you understand?"

"Then it should be obvious that he needs to be controlled!" Irdin
replied. "A cerebral detonator--"

"Was already installed at a previous time," Hrbrd interrupted. "This is
substantiated by Salvage Master Treoffa\'s own personal records. We
recovered *those* along with the pod, and a number of fascinating
records and messages. Did you know that the vessel\'s energy dissipation
field can also be used in conjunction with its main weapon as a sort of
suicide weapon? The Hunters did not, and they paid the price. They
thought they were dealing with a starship constructed by a sane species.
Do you understand?"

Irdin nodded with some hesitation. "So there was another race of
insane--"

"It was an allegory, fool!" Hrbrd interrupted once again, far more
irritably this time. "Albeit a factual one. The human is like the
starship, you cannot attempt your standard methods of coercion, or
they\'re likely to lead to your own death. Would you enjoy being beaten
to death with your own arms, Advisor? I most certainly would not."

"So how *do* you intend to control the human, Councilor?" Irdin asked,
thoroughly abashed by the chastisement.

Hrbrd snorted, always surprised at how unusually stupid members of the
race that thought themselves so superior could be. It so often led to
overthinking the situation, to forming inaccurate expectations in the
abilities of others, and to the pride that -- where humans were involved
at least -- always preceded a downfall.

"I intend to talk to him," Hrbrd said simply. "He is not a beast, and I
believe he may be reasoned with. He is far more intelligent than you
give him credit for, as the field of destruction he leaves behind him
will show you."

Irdin seemed unsatisfied by that, not surprising if you considered what
a routinely average Corti he was. "What if he becomes violent?"

"Then I suspect I shall be killed," Hrbrd replied flatly. "An event I
shall no doubt find most unfortunate. Should that happen you may feel
free to gloat over the correctness of your own assessment for exactly as
long as it will take the human to hunt you down as well."

Irdin at least seemed to accept this for an answer, although it wasn\'t
one he was pleased by. The prospect of being ripped apart by a crazed
Deathworlder was unlikely to delight anyone.

"Now," Hrbrd said, once he had determined that Irdin was not going to
push his point any further, "how is the reclamation of the Human going?"

"De--ionization of the pod will be completed today," Irdin reported. "If
left to its own devices it would have remained lethally radioactive for
ten thousand years. You have yet to advise whether the ship is to
receive similar treatment, Councilor."

"I have yet to *decide* whether it will receive similar treatment,"
Hrbrd replied icily. "The human comes first. Continue."

Obediently, Irdin continued. "Scans have determined the human is in an
injured state. The Doctors have advised that the injury is severe but
not lethal, and appears to be the bite of a Hunter."

"Somebody got a taste of our friend, then," Hrbrd mused. "Presumably the
last thing it ever tasted."

"Presumably," Irdin agreed. "The Human\'s body shows escalated levels of
the \'adrenaline drug\' -- records show that it produces this
*naturally* -- as well as a complete suffusion of Cruezzir! With that
taken into account the Doctors estimate a natural recovery time of
(days), not (weeks) or (months)!"

"That *is* useful," Hrbrd said. "It will be good to be able to utilise
him with little delay."

"Councilor," Irdin asked hesitantly, "why is its body full of Cruezzir?
As I remember it that is a short--lived regenerative treatment."

"Continue with your ignorance, Irdin," Hrbrd replied. "And inform the
Doctors to do likewise. That particular detail is to be removed from any
reports."

"Yes, Councilor," Irdin said deflatedly.

"And Irdin?" Hrbrd continued. "I\'m sure I do not need to remind you
that *all* of this is to go unreported to the Directorate for the time
being. We still do not know who we can trust."

"Of course, Councilor."


