---
title: Fireworks
---

# Fireworks

\

\

::: chapter
Adrian Saunders always took a particular Hunter vessel when the time
came to restock his food supplies, and had come to call it the
\'Shopping Trolley\'. There was really no reason why it had initially
been this ship, excepting perhaps that it had been closest to the edge
of the flight deck, but Hunter vessels were equipped for hauling large
amounts of meat, and had the facilities available to let them keep it
fresh. He knew these facilities had previously been used by the Hunters
to keep the flesh of sapients in, but that hadn\'t bothered him after
he\'d given it a good scrub. Not like it had bothered the others.

He always kept the cloaking system activated, just in case he came up
against something he really didn\'t want to deal with, but today he was
also scanning for other vessels in a way that would allow anyone who was
looking for active scans to find him. It was important that he find
someone to inoculate Jen before she went and caused an outbreak
somewhere else.

He had already been out one more time to flush the ship she had been on
before. He had considered sending the ship, full of plague corpses,
straight into Hunter territory, but he hadn\'t been ready to start
engaging in bio--warfare. You never knew where a weapon like that could
spread to, and the Hunters weren\'t ones to go down without taking a lot
of innocent people with them.

Today was focused on food gathering, however, and he still visited
Affrag for that purpose as he already knew what was worth eating there.
A straightforward run, with the likely fruitless search for other ships
directly after.

He dropped out of warp straight into low orbit, and his scanners lit up
on a dozen scouts throughout the system. His active scanners pinged them
all before he could shut them off.

"Shit!" he cursed, switching the scanners back to passive. "Fuck! Shit!
Fuck!"

It felt good to swear freely again. He\'d been doing his best to keep a
civil tongue since Jen had arrived, a holdover from his upbringing that
tolerated no foul language in the company of women. His father had not
been a good man, but that was one rule that Adrian couldn\'t fault him
on.

He clenched his teeth into a frustrated grimace as the detection systems
started reporting active scans pounding the Shopping Trolley. "Can\'t go
back to the Zhadersil like this," he said to the ship, although it was
not about to respond. "There\'s not even a way to send a proper fucking
message to Jen..."

He looked down at the planet, marking out the familiar land masses,
marking out the places where the clouds were heaviest. It looked as
though it was time for some more camping, but if he was going to be
expecting company he figured he\'d make sure they knew they were
unwelcome.

He just hoped that nothing happened to Jen or the Zhadersil while he was
away.

⁂

Chir had borrowed a vessel after lodging a fake flight plan with the
administration. It was a small vessel, capable of accommodating both
himself and Trycrur, but was expensive enough that once upon a time he
would have balked at the cost. He\'d have balked at it now, if he
hadn\'t known where to find a medium--sized fortune in unused Hunter
ships and known a guy who\'d buy just about anything.

"We\'re going to start by looking in Krditl and tracing a direct line
back towards Affrag," he had explained to Trycrur. "My hope is that
we\'ll find the Zhadersil somewhere along that path, but we\'ll just
need to keep hopping in short distances."

"Tiresome," Trycrur had replied. "But I see your reasoning. Do you think
we *will* find it?"

"I hope so," Chir replied. If only for the sake of his own bank account
he hoped so. At this point having Adrian alive on the Zhadersil would be
a happy bonus.

"Me too," she said. "If the Zhadersil had been destroyed around Affrag
it would have left a lot of debris, and it didn\'t dump into Krditl
along with the Hunter ship. A lot of sensors would have gone off if
anything the size of the Zhadersil had passed through inhabited zones,
and even if the military tried to black it out there\'s no way they
could keep it entirely secret."

"So my hope is that the Zhadersil stopped somewhere on the same route,
and remains in one piece," Chir continued. "We\'ll either find the
Zhadersil, a Zhadersil--sized debris field, or nothing."

"And if we find nothing?" Trycrur asked.

"Then we\'ve wasted our effort," Chir said grimly. "I know nowhere has
put out notices of detecting an object of that size. So that would mean
that it\'s gone somewhere in uncontrolled space outside of scanning
networks. Out here there\'s no end to the possibilities."

"And if we find the Zhadersil?" Trycrur asked. "What\'s the plan?"

"We\'ll land and tell Adrian that people are coming to take his ship
from him," Chir explained bluntly.

"You think he\'ll be happy to see us?" Trycrur asked. "We didn\'t
exactly leave in the best way..."

"Adrian is not a fool," Chir told her. "He won\'t hurt us, although he
may be a touch belligerent, or perhaps a bit smug. Clearly we were
incorrect in that the Zhadersil had no hope of ever moving again."

"What do you think he\'s doing right now?" she asked Chir. "I\'d bet
he\'d be building more weapons."

"He\'s probably doing something stupid," Chir replied. "Since we\'re not
there to stop it."

⁂

Adrian was doing something stupid. He was flying through Affrags lower
atmosphere and periodically actively pinging the vessels in the system.
By now they\'d have recognised his vessel as not having any business
there, although whether they\'d know it was a Hunter ship was another
matter.

There were two possibilities: either they\'d leave him well enough
alone, in which case he\'d know he could warp out and take a
round--about way back to the Zhadersil -- which, now that he thought
about it, was what he *should* have done as soon as he saw them all --
or they\'d follow him down to the surface in the attempt to take him
out, and he\'d have to hope they were as completely fucking useless on a
Deathworld as Chir had been that first time.

Right now the ship was shuddering as he was flying it through a heavy
rain storm, en route to get just ahead of it in order to land. The eyes
in the sky would know the general vicinity of his landing zone, but they
wouldn\'t know his location well enough to paint it from orbit.

He set the ship down on a flat plain just before the storm hit. Passive
scanners were already picking up objects entering geosynchronous orbit
above him.

"Such a fucking idiot," he said to himself. Some days he really did
wonder how he managed to put his trousers on in the morning. "Oh well,
at least if I\'m going to be killed I\'ll make it fucking entertaining."

⁂

**Dominion Cruiser Itrz, Geosynchronous Orbit of Deathworld**

Ship Master Drzzk surveyed the deathworld below, taking into view the
roiling mass of clouds that were surging steadily towards the last
contact point they\'d had on the unknown craft.

"Have we got an ID on that ship class yet?" he asked, turning to his
systems crew, and paused as he saw the looks on their faces. "What is
it?"

"The most likely match is a Hunter craft," Systems Superior Clklict
reported. "As to why it was behaving in that way, I cannot possibly
hazard a guess."

"It may be a trap," one of his subordinates suggested, earning a hiss
from Clklict to inform him to keep his mouth shut.

"It might be," Drzzk agreed. "I\'ve never heard of Hunters doing
anything like *that* however."

"With all due respect, sir," Clklict said, "I haven\'t heard of a Hunter
ship being piloted by a Corti, either. There may be something going on
down there that we need to deal with."

"I don\'t doubt that there *is*, Systems Superior," Drzzk replied
irritably. "I hesitate, however, to send a force down onto a Deathworld
after an unknown target. I do not think so little of my peoples\' lives
as to throw them away in such a manner."

"We can\'t just--" Clklict started again, stopping only as his Ship
Master eyed him venomously.

"I will send down a few soldiers in a scout," Ship Master Drzzk decided.
"They will find the vessel, and when they have found it they will mark
it as a target for orbital bombardment. I do not want to risk more out
here than we already are."

⁂

**Zhadersil**

Jennifer Delaney was busy cleaning. There was a lot to do, Adrian had
certainly not lied about that -- she\'d have to ask him why there was a
bucket of dried out shit in a prison room -- and she could see that this
would be the kind of work that may take days or weeks to complete.
Obviously there had been the sixty--five million years without any form
of cleaning, but aside from that Adrian had a tendency to make enormous
messes and not clean them up.

If she was going to be stuck out here with him, that was going to have
to be one habit she broke him of. She wasn\'t his wife, and she wasn\'t
his mum, and there was no way in all of Heaven and Earth that she\'d be
doing whatever passed for his laundry. If he thought anything different,
that man had another thing coming!

The rest she could understand. It wasn\'t as though he had ever seemed
to be simply taking a moment to relax when he wasn\'t eating. There was
always some work being done, be it hunting for food, cooking that food,
or repairing the million and one things that were undoubtedly wrong with
the ships. It was, to her mind, fairly astounding that he was even
capable of doing *anything* with the ships. He had not exactly struck
her as the sort of man who thinks with his head, given all his muscles
and perfect physique.

Jennifer Delaney forced herself to think of something else. She knew she
was attracted to him, that had been the case since she\'d gotten an
eyeful of him hard at work and straining his wonderful muscles, and she
suspected that he\'d glanced away from her before she\'d caught him
looking a few times. She also knew that she wasn\'t about to start a
relationship with a man just because he was the last possible prospect
in a hopeless universe.

Although as reasons went...

She shook her head. No, that would just be mad! What would happen if it
didn\'t work out -- as it was almost but not entirely certain to --
would they just part ways with \'Oh well, it didn\'t work out, maybe
I\'ll see you around some time\' and leave it at that?

There was every possibility that he was the last other human she would
ever meet and she wasn\'t about to mess that up by complicating things.
Scratching that particular itch just wasn\'t worth it.

She sighed as she scrubbed. It certainly would have been nice though.

"Think about something else, Jen," she told herself. "Like the old fat
bloke in marketing. Not attractive at--"

She was interrupted by the Zhadersil\'s alarms going off as a Saurian
voice provided some sort of message. She didn\'t need to understand it
to know that something was wrong.

She froze where she was, like a deer in the headlights. Alone on an
ancient dinosaur spaceship with all sorts of unintelligible alerts going
off. "Oh shit biscuits..."

⁂

**Affrag**

The sub--tropical rain was wet, warm and heavy, and an absolutely
wonderful sensation to a man who\'d spent his last few months washing
out of a bucket. Adrian roamed the cloud--shadowed darkness of the alien
forest that edged the plain where the Shopping Trolley had landed. Over
the thunder he could hear the sound of spacecraft; it looked as though
they had at least gone so far as to start sweeping the area by air.

But they couldn\'t have had any sort of success yet. If they\'d found
the Hunter vessel, he was confident they would have hit it from orbit.
That\'s what he would have done, and he didn\'t expect they were all as
thick as each other.

He was about to give up on them ever coming to ground when a transport
lander finally descended from the clouds, sending them roiling around
its bulk as it slowed its descent. It splashed down in the mire where
the water of the plains ran off onto lower ground. Just about the worst
place they could have picked to land.

Just about the best place they could have picked if you were Adrian. He
worked his way through the forest, drawing closer and closer to the
sound of urgent, angry voices shouting above the roar of rain and
thunder.

He slipped into cover behind a deadfall that dropped from forest to
murk, and peered out from behind the debris. Several aliens were
standing around in the mud, clearly about as fucking pissed off as they
could be at this state of affairs.

"Eight outside the craft," he mumbled to himself. "Likely to be a couple
more inside."

He figured he\'d wait until the guys outside had moved off on whatever
adventure they intended, then work his way in to attack the landing ship
itself. From there he could get creative.

The guys on the ground appeared to finally give up shouting in disgust,
and moved off as a commendably tightly formed unit in the direction of
the plains and higher ground. They weren\'t complete idiots, and if left
to their own devices they\'d probably locate the Shopping Trolley.

Adrian grinned evilly to himself. They\'d be distracted long before that
ever happened.

He dropped down into the muck once they\'d moved out of view, then
engaged the hover suit. With that he was able to float a small distance
above the surface of the mire, and with a small amount of propulsion he
could drift, mostly unseen, towards the landing craft.

He was there within a few minutes, with no sign of any alarm having been
raised and was pleased to find that they\'d left the hatch door down as
a result of it being half submerged upon opening. No wonder the away
party had been so mad; he didn\'t even need to try as he slipped inside.

The alarm went off and two aliens -- more of the Blue fucking Giraffes,
the \'Rickle--prickle\' if he recalled the name of their species
correctly -- spun to face him. Their faces were masks of pure horror as
they laid eyes on him, although he supposed he must look more like the
monster of the black lagoon at this point than any sapient being.

"Right you tall fucksticks," he said, enjoying their reaction as they
realised he was intelligent. "I\'ve got two options for you."

They drew on him and fired their kinetic pulse guns. The shots felt like
slaps on his wet skin.

"First option," he continued as their horror visibly mounted. "I kill
the absolute shit out of both of you."

They fired again, more half--heartedly this time as he advanced on them.
The shots hurt slightly more as he moved closer, but Adrian had been in
too many brutal fights to even pay them much notice.

"Second option," he said, now pointing his own gun at the nearest of the
two. "You do one thing for me, and I let you go."

⁂

**Dominion Cruiser Itrz, Geosynchronous Orbit of Deathworld**

"Lander is returning from surface at high speed," reported Systems
Superior Clklict. "They did not report any engagement with the enemy."

Ship Master Drzzk looked at the console, his face contorting into
thoughtful consideration. "They may be fleeing Hunters. Try and get them
on the link. How long before they connect with us?"

"(Thirty seconds)," replied Clklict with some confusion, that was an
awfully fast return from planetside, even from a Death world with a
possible Hunter infestation. "I don\'t see anything chasing them..."

Drzzk looked troubled. "Get them on link!"

"They\'re not answering," Clklict replied. "Could it be full of
Hunters?"

"Deny it dock until we\'re sure!" Drzzk commanded. "I won\'t have--"

He was cut short by the impact of a landing pod ramming through the
docking bay. The ship shuddered violently as the inertia system fought
to reduce the vibrations. All manner of alert began to sound as the ship
detected damaged system after damaged system.

But they didn\'t need the damage system report; the view--screen told
enough of the story that they could guess the rest. A section of the
hull had been cleaved away by the force of the blow and air, plasma and
debris gouted from the broken part of the ship.

"We\'ve been hit by the lander!" Drzzk spat angrily. "Somebody shot us
with our own landing craft! What\'s the damage?"

"We\'re damaged, with several key systems crippled," Clklict relayed.
"We\'d never stand up to a Hunter attack right now. Sir, I suggest we
warp out."

"I don\'t want to leave those men behind!" Drzzk told him. "I won\'t
leave them behind, Systems Superior!"

Clklict felt heavy with the knowledge of what needed to be said. "Sir,"
he said slowly, "it is likely that your son is already dead."

Drzzk\'s expression darkened. "This is not about my son!" he said
through clenched teeth. "This is about leaving men behind!"

"I understand sir," Clklict continued. He had expected this excuse, but
he did not relish what he did now. "In that case I must relieve you of
your command."
:::
