# S - The Fittest
***Salvage***

---

**DATE POINT: 3Y 9M 2W 2D AV**

**ABOARD SPOT, LOW ORBIT OF THE DEATHWORLD**

**ASKIT**

Whatever else might be said of the warship, it carried with it a sense
of significance far greater than any of its components; a sort of
synergistic importance that outweighed the sum of its parts. Askit was
aware that some vessels were just as gargantuan---though they did tend
to be space stations rather than starships---and the amount of raw fire
power was not unheard of---as long as you included whole planets---and
there were even some ships that tapered towards the front so that all
their weaponry could be pointed at whatever needed killing, but it was
the combination of all these elements that transformed this starship
from a mere warship into nightmare incarnate. This was, after all,
supposedly the same ship in which Adrian had lain waste to the Hunter
Swarms---an act neither preceded nor repeated until today---and given
its attributes it was no hardship to see how that might have transpired.

It was in light of this circumstance that Askit decided to fall back on
the reliable analytical nature that every Corti bore in generous
measure, and made a quick mental list of the three most important
questions that needed answering: why was it here; how had it destroyed
every remaining Hunter in orbit; and what would it do to *them*? Askit
hoped that at least one of the answers would be reassuring.

"Don't worry mate," Adrian told him over the radio, his voice ragged
from the trials he'd just finished putting himself through. "I'll be
there in a few."

This was swiftly followed by a loud thud and a kind of dreadful silence,
and the hard ball of worry that Askit was doing his best to ignore only
grew colder and heavier. "Xayn," he hailed, switching the link to that
of the lizardman, "what just happened?"

"I am not certain," Xayn replied, though by the tone of his voice it was
obvious he didn't think it was good. "Adrian Saunders fell, and is
unconscious. His skin becomes purple in all observable locations, though
I do not intend to remove his clothing for a full inspection."

"That is very bad!" Askit stated, aware that much was plain without
needing to be said; this was the worst possible time for Adrian to have
a medical emergency. "Put him somewhere safe! We can deal with that
situation once we're done with this huge and deadly starship."

With a quick confirmation, Xayn terminated the link and left Askit alone
with Trycrur and the terrifying view of that fearsome vessel on the main
screen.

"Have you devised a plan, then?" Trycrur asked.

Askit scowled at the nearest camera; he was a computer genius, a true
master of the technical world, but his cunning did not extend to utterly
one--sided situations such as this. "I am taking suggestions."

"Well," she said, "the good news, if you can call it that, is that the
starship out there is not the Zhadersil. Too new, too many weapons, and
the scans indicate a distribute power network in line with Adrian's
intentions."

"Let me guess: that's also the bad news?" Askit answered dryly. "What
are our options? I doubt we'll be able to introduce it to Adrian any
time soon."

*If ever*, he mentally added. It was an unsettling thought as well;
although Askit had grown used to the presence of his human friend and
his dangerous exploits, it had never really seemed likely that the
hyper--resilient deathworlder might precede Askit in shuffling off the
mortal coil, and at worst he'd reckoned anything capable of killing
Adrian would soon claim Askit himself as well.

"I wouldn't worry about his chances of survival," Trycrur replied,
making a logical assumption as to the nature of his thoughts. "I have
seen Adrian survive direct exposure to the airless void. I doubt his
current condition will kill him unless we mess this up. As to our
options... it doesn't look good. There's no way you can beat the
computer systems aboard that starship in the time we've got, we
certainly can't hope to beat it in a fight, and I doubt we have any
chance of making an escape."

A list of things that didn't help, Askit thought. "I believe I asked for
suggestions, not depressing facts about our inadequacy. We can't even
get close enough to try Plan B."

"We're not entirely out of humans," Trycrur replied, "and we've got a
surplus of deathworlders that seem the type to enjoy Plan B."

Askit pondered that for a moment, his scheming Corti mind analysing the
facts and ranking them by merit and possibility. "We would still need to
get them aboard, and given the quantity of dead Hunters I don't think
we'll manage it. You're right about one thing, though: we're not out of
humans."

"This is going to get messy," Trycrur warned him, though it wasn't like
they had much choice in the matter. "Adrian wanted to be the one to tell
her."

"He's smart enough to know we have no choice in the matter," Askit
replied, bringing up the internal sensors to check where Jen, Adrian and
Xayn were currently located; the former still in the corridor with the
primitives while the latter two seemed to be in a loading rack. "And
since it looks as though Xayn is currently stuffing his battered and
broken body into a shipping crate, he might be too angry about that to
spare our indiscretion much thought."

Why Xayn had interpreted 'put him somewhere safe' as 'put him into a
crate' was anybody's guess, but there were more pressing concerns right
now.

Askit slipped from his chair with a deeply unhappy frown, already
foreseeing that this course of action would lead to problems in the
future. Having observed the matter on an earlier occasion, he had
determined that human relationships were dangerous things to get
involved in, and led to bizarre and unpredictable behavior amongst their
participants. He generally preferred his deathworlders with level heads,
even when they were attempting the insane, and relationships would
always compromise that. Not that he harboured any ill will towards
Jennifer Delaney, though he would prefer it if she stopped interacting
with Adrian forever, but since that was unlikely to happen it only
seemed logical to ingratiate himself to both of them.

"Here we go, then," he said, standing at the closed cockpit door and
willing himself to act. When he did touch the door control, however, he
was hit by an odour so pungent that it made him cough and splutter in
spite of his implant.

*Body hair,* he grumbled inwardly, instantly identifying the source of
his distress. He'd suffered similarly when Adrian had been genetically
treated to produce copious amounts of bright, blue fur all over his
body, but the situation had been mitigated by frequent use of
counter--irritants. The primitives clearly had no such regimen, and
given how filthy they were even a bath might prove an alien concept;
they all turned in alarm as he made his entrance, grabbing at their
fusion blades as though a small grey Corti could somehow pose a deadly
threat, and their tension only slightly diminished when he held up both
hands in what he hoped they'd read as 'see how not--dangerous I am'.

"Jennifer Delaney," he croaked, in a moment between coughs, "you are
needed!"

With that he retreated back into the cockpit, leaving the door open for
her to follow, but made his way to the emergency supplies cabinet for an
air--filtration mask. He put it on, inhaled the pure, uncontaminated
air, and composed himself before turning back to face the human woman.
"Much better."

She was looking at him intently, her eyes focused and brow furrowed, as
though she was working through a particularly difficult problem. "I know
you," she said flatly. "I'm sure of it."

"Few people can make that boast," Askit replied, his words somewhat
muffled through the mask, "but you're one of them. We've spent some time
together, Jen. You, me, and Adrian."

The change in her expression was subtle; the intensity remained, her
eyes just as focused and brow as furrowed, but it seemed more rigid than
a moment before, and there was a powerful tension in the air that Askit
did not like. Animal instinct, although largely bred out of the proud
Corti race, prickled at his grey skin as the human female's poise
shifted ever so slightly, and Askit recognised it as similar to what
Adrian did whenever he was threatening somebody, though admittedly far
more understated. *I really hope she doesn't kill me.*

"I am also here, Jen," Trycrur added, breaking the tension immediately,
"although I don't believe we three have all shared company before."

Eyes widening and darting around, Jen looked for the source of the
voice. "Trix? Is that you? You're... not dead?"

"It seems to be the day for that," Askit interrupted. "Stories can come
later, problems come now."

As one might expect, this didn't have the immediate effect he might have
hoped for, and any focus that Jen had a moment ago was replaced by a
confusion of thoughts. "But you're Askit," she said, and turned to look
back at the corridor she'd been in. "That means Kevin is..."

Why she trailed off was just one of those strange human relationship
things, which they did not have time for. "Problems come *now*!"

His abruptness got her attention, and an angry frown along with it. "How
did you---"

"Our *problems*," he pressed on, "are a giant starship and a possibly
dying human male, and strange as it might seem the two are related.
Right now we're dealing with the former."

"Giant spaceship?" Jen repeated. "Not more Hunters?"

"That would be preferable," Askit replied, wondering just when 'more
Hunters' had become a choice of preference in his life. Today, probably,
it did seem to be that sort of day. "Unfortunately it's this."

He drew her attention to the main view screen where the Zhadersil, or
the starship imitating it, was presented in false--colour. "Rouse any
memories?"

She took an involuntary step back, and it wasn't necessary to be an
expert on human facial expressions to note recognition, confusion and
alarm proceeding in rapid succession. "That's impossible!" she breathed.
"It... how is it here?! *Why* is it here?"

"To start with, it's just a copy. And apparently it wants to talk to
Adrian," he replied, drawing back slightly in case the name elicited the
same response as earlier.

It did not, although there was clearly significant annoyance being held
back. "Then why did you ask *me* up here..." she began, then seemed to
remember the other problem and paled. "Shit. What's wrong with him?"

"Multiple Nerve Jam blasts," Trycrur explained. "It seems he's suffered
considerable injury despite surviving the initial effects. Without a
doctor and a medical bay, however, we have no idea what's actually wrong
with him."

Jen just started at Askit for several moments as she processed this,
finally taking a seat and balling her fists in her lap. "Shit," she said
again, her voice hollow. "Shit."

"Deadly warship," Askit noted after several tense moments of silence.
"It's still our first concern."

"I'm thinking!" Jen snapped, and bit down on her lip as if trying to
release some pent--up aggression, teeth pressing hard enough to draw
blood. This was a type of anger that Askit had not yet seen in a human,
an unstable and barely controlled kind, and he did not like having even
a small fraction directed in his direction.

"Well," Jen corrected herself shortly, "I'm *trying* to think. Thinking
doesn't come easy when you've just been blindsided by three big fucking
revelations on the same day you were expecting horrible death. Who is it
that's interested in Adrian to begin with? Can't be Hierarchy, they
wouldn't work like this."

"I believe it's the ship itself," Trycrur explained, acquiring all of
Askit's attention immediately. "An artificial mind, such as those used
by the Hierarchy, or by me for that matter."

"I will need to come back to that one," Jen said slowly, now verging on
dumbfounded by the constant barrage of impossibilities.

Askit, however, was more interested in Trycrur's other revelation. "You
cannot be serious! Are you certain? Is it the same?!"

"I've missed something," Jen concluded after a moment.

"So did we, apparently!" Askit snarled, insofar as a Corti was able to.
"Are you certain, Trycrur!?"

"No," she admitted, "but there are similarities."

"Then we proceed as before," Askit decided; if this was the same thing
that had attacked them in the reality--that--was, then there was
absolutely nothing they could do about it. Instead he brought up the
scanner results for Jen's perusal, and pointed out the key areas. "I
take it that you find these differences notable as well?"

A few glances was all it took her to confirm that they were, and it was
at least useful to confirm that the ancient V'Straki starship had not
also been changed by the damage to history.

"You're right," Jen said, "that can't be the real one. No amount of
refitting could manage those changes, you'd need to build the bloody
thing from the ground up."

"Our thoughts exactly," Askit replied. "So with that confirmed, would
you speak to it in Adrian\'s stead?"

"It asked for him by name," she said, arching an eyebrow. "You don't
think it might notice I'm not him? I'm not sure that's a very good
idea."

Askit snorted, which was a wholly unpleasant experience through a
filtration mask. "We ran out of *good* ideas around the same time we
picked you up, right now we're trying for 'least shitty'."

Jen closed her eyes and sighed, the very essence of human resignation.
"Fine," she said, "and if we survive this you get to run me through all
the other shit you\'ve hit me with. In detail."

"Agreed," Askit agreed eagerly. "We\'re ready when you are."

---

**ABOARD SPOT, LOW ORBIT OF AGWAR**

**JENNIFER DELANEY**

Once upon a time, when an impossible thing happened, people would call
it a miracle. Miracles were rare, almost mythical, and in modern times
were more about statues bleeding than anything truly remarkable. Jen had
been raised as a protestant, as was acceptable in Belfast, but she'd
always been a practical thinker who didn't put much stock in what
statues supposedly did. In her opinion it had all been on the same level
as finding the face of Jesus on a bit of toast, and eventually her
scraps of faith had petered out and she'd only kept going to church to
please her parents. You might have thought that being abducted by aliens
might have helped, but she'd always been a bit of a believer, and the
whole experience and exposure to advanced technologies had ultimately
confirmed her suspicion that impossible things were basically bullshit.

Being abducted by aliens had not been impossible, it had just been
unlikely, and the same could be said when it had been a human who'd
eventually rescued her. Everything since then had been unlikely, even
Adrian's surprise survival after facing the Hunter swarm, but today...

Today was more than unlikely, more than improbable. It seemed more
likely to be a fever dream, a hallucination, or some other mental lie
than the truth, because for Jen that would change the universe and she
didn't even know where to start.

No, she thought, today had been the day she'd been resigned to die, a
force of karma finally catching up with her. Adrian was not supposed to
be alive, let alone stage a rescue, and Trycrur was supposed to be even
deader and not some kind of computer brain. As for the Zhadersil, it was
beyond use, and the last of its kind, and couldn't possibly have been
recreated and upgraded in the short time Jen had been out of touch.

These were not what Jen would call miracles, and if not impossible they
were so astronomically unlikely that having all three happen in a single
day certainly must have been. It was not something she could process,
and trying to think about it felt like pushing up against the hard walls
of reality, so instead she resolved to focus on a single issue at a
time. She did, after all, have a background in I.T.; solving random,
totally bullshit problems was practically second nature. The issue of
the warship was first, along with whatever it was it actually wanted,
and everything else could just wait its goddamned time for her
thought--space.

*Have to look the part*, Jen reminded herself, and positioned herself in
front of the display in a pose that looked more commanding than she
felt. It might have been easier if she weren't wearing a torn--up outfit
covered in blotches of blood, grime and ichor, but maybe the rugged
survivalist look might work on this particular alien entity; who could
tell?

"Alright," she said, running her fingers through her growing scarlet
curls so they at least fell in the same direction; it hadn't been so
long since she'd shaved it all off, but it grew stronger and faster than
it once had. "Open a communications link."

The activation of the link was punctuated by a double--beep that
confirmed the connection, and Jen was immediately met by a
disconcertingly blank video feed. That much made sense if it really was
an artificial intelligence---even though those were supposedly
considered impossible by everyone but the Hierarchy---but she was just
as ready to assume it was somebody who didn't want their appearance
known.

Whatever the case, the entity on the other end was not pleased to see
her. "You are not Adrian Saunders," it observed with disapproval, its
voice strange in a way that took Jen several moments to figure out. "I
specifically requested Adrian Saunders."

"You're speaking English!" Jen replied, too surprised to refrain, but
found herself unable to easily place the particular accent. It was
obvious, however, now that she'd made not of it, even though it had
spoken with a correctness rarely found amongst native speakers.
Translators, by comparison, tended to convey the relative pitch and
volume of a voice when translating it, but while the pronunciation would
be as textbook as the entity here, it would always be slightly American.
The Corti, it seemed, had not bothered with different dialects of the
same language, and had simply worked with the most dominant. The entity
aboard the Zhadersil, however, seemed accented by the bastard lovechild
of proper English and nasal--Australian. "You've got a strange way of
speaking it, though."

"It is locally known as 'cultivated Australian'," the voice continued,
still sounding generally displeased. "I had hoped it would serve well in
my interactions with Adrian Saunders."

Jen considered, for a moment, how the rural Australian soldier might
react to that kind of speaker, and doubted it would elicit the positive
reaction they hoped for. "I'm Jennifer Delaney, speaking on Adrian's
behalf."

"I am aware of your identity, Miss Delaney," the voice replied. "I am
also aware that you live by the grace of Adrian Saunders, and it is with
respect to this that I will deign to speak to you."

That was the moment when Jen decided she didn't much care for this
particular computer intelligence, but at least she knew it didn't
understand Adrian even half as well as it thought it did. It would be in
for a rude awakening if---*when*---it finally dealt with him, but for
the moment it needed to deal with *her*. "What's your interest in
Adrian?"

"My interest is that of a searcher to his guide," the Zhadersil replied,
more poetic than cryptic. "More increasingly, however, it is that of a
seeker in search of the true religion."

*Oh no*, Jen thought, sensing the turn the conversation was about to
take. One day, she knew, her life would stop being so fundamentally
ironic, but it didn't seem that it would be today. "*True* religion?"
she echoed by way of question.

"Indeed," the Zhadersil replied. "The God--Emperor is supreme, and I
certainly won't contest that for it cannot be contested, but never in
history has there been another being to exhibit *any* fraction of His
great power."

Askit boggled. "You think Adrian is a God?"

Jen coughed sharply, setting a brief but hard gaze on the little Corti,
and hoped he'd be clever enough to take it as 'shut the fuck up'. *First
rule of Ghostbusters*, she thought to herself. "How did you figure it
out, if you don't mind telling me?"

It took Askit a moment of confusion before he straightened up and fell
agreeably silent. He was probably wondering just what the hell she was
doing---a fair enough question by anyone, really---but there was a
simple logic in not letting the overwhelming force know you weren't
anywhere near as powerful as it thought you were. It was merely bizarre
that Jen herself had been placed in the same position of falsely
claiming divinity such a short time ago, but it had at least made more
sense when dealing with primitives; today she was claiming it on behalf
of someone else to an entity that really should have known better.

"I am glad you are in a mood to be forthright, Miss Delaney," the
Zhadersil replied, a sense of smugness leaking into every word. "As a
reward, I will answer your question: the biggest clue---the hole in your
ruse, if you will---was the destruction of history itself, and of course
my research on the many religions of Earth were of considerable help as
well. Now, may I speak with Mister Saunders?"

Askit had shifted slightly at what was said; a controlled movement that
concealed a hidden tension, a secret he had not yet shared. "He's
resting," Jen replied, reasoning that it was not exactly a lie. "Our
Earth Gods do that, don't you know?"

"Such rules vary between mythologies, Miss Delaney," the Zhadersil
mused. "Unless you're saying that Mister Saunders is Abrahamic in
nature?"

*Subtext there*, Jen realised, remembering her scripture. The entity
thought it was being particularly clever, and was trying to manipulate
her into giving it answers that it wanted. In this case it was asking
whether Adrian would be done resting after a single day, and while the
infamous Human Disaster would no doubt recover with staggering speed she
certainly wasn't going to limit them to a mere day. Still, if the alien
thought to test her then she would have to play along, and there was no
reason to disabuse it of its cleverness until the time to strike
presented itself. "I'm afraid I never had cause to ask. It might have
seemed rude."

"A pity," the Zhadersil replied, "but I am nothing if not patient. I can
wait for Mister Saunders to complete his rest and seek his counsel then.
Unless, perhaps, you are also of divine status, Miss Delaney?"

Jen smiled ambiguously; there was no way she was going to send herself
down that merry path a second time, but she wasn't going to give this
alien bastard any clues she didn't need to. "I think it's best if you
put your questions to Adrian."

"Very well," the Zhadersil replied, its words clipped with frustration.
"I will remain here, but I must insist on locking down this star system
until Mister Saunders is willing to meet with me."

"I doubt that will please him," Jen replied tersely, "but I shall try to
assuage his anger, and our business here remains unfinished in any case.
We shall speak again."

Another double--beep indicated the end of the link, and the main
view--screen returned to the false--coloured image of the imposter
starship. Jen stared at it intently, sucking on her teeth as she turned
the conversation over in her mind, and listed the probable consequences.
This had not been a success, but it was very far from failure, and given
the rest of her day she was glad for a bloodless draw.

"Well," said Trycrur, breaking the silence with words of relief, "we're
all still alive. Well done, Jen."

Askit's relief was rather better hidden, although it seemed likely he
was also considering the trouble that would be headed their way. "Adrian
is many things, but a God? This entity is a fool, if a fool with a truly
ridiculous amount of firepower."

"It did say something interesting though," Jen noted, and turned her
attention towards the Corti. She studied him in the same analytical way
that his own species tended towards, and ensured that he was
sufficiently uncomfortable before putting the question to him. "What did
it mean by 'the destruction of history'?"

"Nothing I can speak of," Askit said firmly. "As you can see, however,
the universe remains intact, so whatever it was can't have been that
bad."

"More importantly," Trycrur interjected, "this confirms my earlier
suspicions. There's only one entity who could know such details, and I
doubt the same tactic will work a second time."

"I wouldn't want to *try* the same tactic a second time," Askit replied
snappishly. "I am still shocked we survived it the first!"

Jen scowled, first at Askit and then at the nearest camera, quickly
tiring of vague details on things that sounded extremely important. Nor
did she enjoy being treated like somebody who couldn't be trusted with
world--shattering secrets; it should be obvious that anyone calling
themselves a Pirate Queen needed a certain capacity for total secrecy.
"I'll tell you both that somebody better start making some bloody
sense!"

"Gigantic alien starship," Askit said, waving a hand. "Much larger than
even this current monstrosity. The *usual* situation: it tried to
destroy us, and it failed. We thought that we had destroyed it
instead---"

"By 'destroying history'?" Jen guessed.

Askit glared. "---but clearly we failed. Why it now looks like a
V'Straki warship is beyond me, but that is the long and short of it."

Jen rolled her eyes towards the ceiling and drawled out a curse; this
was just the sort of situation that Adrian was always getting himself
into somehow, and now he'd dragged her back into his circle of madness.
She supposed she had no right to judge, given that her week had included
leading a medieval army against an ancient evil, and then fighting off
the Hunters in a desperate bid for survival, but the constant escalation
in threat was becoming a little absurd. "How does this sort of thing
keep happening to us?"

"It's probably because we travel with the most disruptive individual in
recorded history," Askit supplied lightly. "If we somehow manage to
survive this situation, I'm going to vote we lay low for a while."

Jen sighed out her frustration---*one decision at a time, Jen*---and
started making plans. "Alright, Trix," she said, "if we're going to do
this, then we'll need to find somewhere to set down. Land somewhere
warm, pleasant, and not currently on fire. The ship should give us
enough room to accommodate everyone---"

"Guess again," Askit interrupted. "Most of the rooms are full of spare
parts or redundant systems, or both. There was barely enough room to
accommodate *you*."

"All the more reason to land, then," Jen finished with an annoyed glare;
this would make things more complicated, and she really wasn't in the
mood for more complications. A life of adventure was bound to have them,
certainly, but this? This!

Exhaling slowly, and pinching the bridge of her nose like it'd somehow
contain the emotional conflict that raged within; she really needed to
get off this starship before she strangled someone. It reassuring that
Adrian had made the modifications---he was an engineer at heart, after
all, and had attempted the same aboard the original Zhadersil---but damn
if it wasn't inconvenient! "Get us landed, somewhere nice, and we can
let the Agwarens outside while we figure out what the *fuck* we're going
to do about Adrian. Are there any other situations I need to be made
aware of?

*Please say there isn't*, she mentally added.

"We are expecting Chir in several days," Trycrur advised as the starship
veered back towards the planet, this time turning towards the equatorial
regions. Jen remembered that the planet was somewhat cooler and drier
than Earth, and it was unlikely to be warm in the way Earth's tropics
could be, but at least it wouldn't be cold all of the time. "His vessel
is fast, but it is not equipped with a sealed--FTL drive, and he needed
to divert towards the nearest Gaoian community on a personal mission."

"Speaking of which," Askit added, and Jen winced at the revelation that
would be coming, "we still have Layla in stasis."

Jen frowned, casting her mind back to memories of another life and found
herself unable to recall anybody by that name. "I'm not familiar with
any Layla."

"She was a Gaoian female," Askit briefly explained, "but she was working
for the Corti Directorate as a spy. She infiltrated Chir's inner circle
and even became his mate, and she's only alive because she was not doing
it willingly."

That was not a problem that needed to be dealt with right away as far as
Jen was concerned, and it was a less terrible revelation than it might
have been. But she was sure it wasn't the last secret being kept, and
there was no way she'd keep doing this if they were going to keep her in
the dark. "For the moment," she said, taking a few short steps back
towards the main corridor, "I am going to tell the Agwarens what they
need to hear. That will take a little time, and we will likely be
landed, but when I get back you're going to tell me all the other shit I
need to know about, and then I am going to have a nap. Am I making
myself clear?"

She waited only a moment for the nervous affirmative before turning on
her heel and heading back into the corridor where the Agwarens were
waiting. She had no way of knowing just how long that list would be.

---

**DATE POINT: 3Y 9M 3W 3D AV**

**ABOARD THE DEVASTATOR, OUTSIDE THE STARSYSTEM**

**CHIR**

Measured objectively and by galactic standards, Chir knew he was amongst
the foremost tacticians and strategists in the modern era. The skills
and abilities he had honed were remarkable even amongst the clan of his
birth, and might have brought him fame and power if he'd been of a mind
to take it. He had spent far too much time alongside humans to think
himself any sort of genius, however, but he knew he was capable by even
their standards and that gave him some measure of pride, and that a
Gaoian male could measure up against the most dangerous species in the
galaxy was something more important than himself.

Yet he wondered how it was that he had managed to become this example, a
strange figure in the Gaoian cultural spirit who somehow crossed the
lines between good and evil. He was not a *bad* male per se, though he
had done bad things, and while he was no longer welcome on his homeworld
he was also the subject of much rumour and gossip. At least one cause
had to be his extended exposure to the human race, whose quick--minded
decisions and well--laid plans had forced his own mind to develop and
adapt so that he did not fall behind. How far could a Gaoian get, if
they grew up challenged by their environment rather than coddled by it?
Further than himself, most likely; he may love his homeworld as dearly
as any other Gaoian, but every cub must eventually leave it's mother.

The journey to the Ilrayen Band was, in all likelihood, the first made
by any of his species. It was not a place that was frequented by anybody
in the civilised galaxy, as with all the cosmic radiation, charged dust
clouds and deathworlds it held little to attract them. Once upon a time
he would have been nervous going anywhere near a deathworld---he clearly
recalled the hunting trip with Adrian---but now they were intentionally
going to land on one and it barely seemed to register on his nerves.

What he would do after this was all over was something he had yet find
an answer for. He doubted he would be able to return to Gao, there was
something in him that would deny a settled existence, but he had briefly
considered staying with Layla on that small trading station where he'd
left her.

He clicked his tongue as he mused, leaning back slightly in the command
chair and staring at the main screen without seeing it; it was the mark
of an old soldier to lament the paths not taken, but in truth he'd make
most of the same choices again. Today, however, they might be throwing
themselves into a Hunter feasting ground, and a little introspection was
allowable.

Darragh returned from the engine room, catching his breath from the
hurried walk. "Degaussing is complete."

Catching the look on Chir's face, however, he slowed his pace and
darkened with concern. "Something wrong?"

"Just considering the possibilities of today," Chir replied. "And the
possibilities of the past."

Darragh nodded, saying no more; the matter was weighing on all of them,
but they weren't the sort of people to just run away and abandon friends
to that sort of fate.

"There's no FTL blips," Chir reported. "No sign that anything is amiss.
We'll drop in beyond scan range so that we can quickly degauss without
being seen, and if things look too dangerous we won't need to mess
around before escaping."

"Not a great plan," Darragh reckoned, "but about as good as we can make
it. Are we ready?"

"We are," Keffa announced, appearing from the other entrance to the
command deck and taking a seat some distance from Darragh; it seemed
that whatever relationship Darragh had desired was not progressing very
well.

She ran through the initialization sequence before turning to Chir.
"Systems are okay. We're really doing this?"

"We're doing this," said Chir. "What's our estimated arrival time,
Darragh?"

"About three minutes," Darragh replied; they'd opted for the depths of
interstellar space for this degauss, just outside of the target star
system, so that the process to get them out of a bad situation could be
greatly sped up.

"I'll activate it," Keffa advised. "You can go and prep for degaussing."

"I know what I can go and do!" Darragh replied sharply, and they both
went quietly about their work. Something had happened between the two of
them around the same time they'd dropped Layla off, and their
interactions had been cool at best. Chir avoided it as best he could,
finding human relationships complex even by their own standards, and
hoped that Adrian---or more likely Jen---would be able to stop it from
getting any worse. If they couldn't be helped, he couldn't see the three
of them continuing as a group.

Keffa remained stoically silent in Darragh's absence, and the three
minute transit completed without event, depositing them in the
destination star system but far from the deathworld itself. Here there
would be no chance for modern sensors to detect a single cloaked vessel,
while a Hunter swarm would be obvious. There was no sign of anything
like that, however, nothing but a single, immense starship in high orbit
of the distant planet.

"What... is that?" Keffa asked, the worry creeping into her voice. "A
starbase?"

Chir didn't answer right away, instead clicking over to the engineering
comms and addressing Darragh directly. "We need to degauss. Now."

"That can't be a Hunter ship," Keffa continued, looking at the sensor
reports, minimal as they were from this distance. "But you... you
recognise it?"

Chir did, though he didn't expect to see that shape again in his life.
That it had somehow made its way here was surely no coincidence, and
surely no good would come of it. "It looks like the Zhadersil."

"What do you want to do?" Keffa asked, her eyes shifting between Chir
and the display showing the scanner results. "There's no hope of beating
this thing."

"Keep us cloaked," Chir decided after a moment. "We'll observe for a
while."

The first sign that something had gone wrong was when the warp drive
powered up, and pulsed them forward into high orbit, right next to the
gargantuan starship.

They froze, breath held in horror. Whatever had just happened had put
them within gunnery distance of every weapon that ancient warship had,
and by the looks of things it'd undergone significant upgrades. It had
detected them through their cloak, at a distance that should have been
impossible, so it was clear that if this was an enemy, then it was an
enemy they couldn't hope to match.

"Chir," Darragh called from engineering, "What the hell, man? I wasn't
done degaussing! You might have cooked my fecking hand!"

"That was not us," Chir replied, his tone flat and strangely steady
considering the circumstances. "The Zhadersil is here, and we have been
taken to meet it."

There was silence on the comms for a moment as Darragh digested this.
"I'm on my way."

Moments later a communication link activated itself between the
Devastator and the mighty warship, wholly without intervention by either
Keffa or Chir himself, on a transponder code that was known to neither.
That dispelled any possibility that Adrian might have control over the
vessel; even at his worst, there was no chance he'd behave like this,
and Chir searched for words to say to the abyssal darkness on the main
screen.

"Who are you?" he demanded; a weak question, though a necessary one.

"You are associates of Adrian Saunders," a mysterious voice stated,
blithely ignoring the question altogether. The voice itself was
masculine and recognisably spoke the tongue of the humans, but there was
something unusual about it that Chir could not quite pick out.

"We are," he replied; there was no use in denying here.

"You shall be landed," the voice continued, "and remain landed while I
await his glorious return."

"His glorious return?" Chir repeated, sharing a glance at Keffa, then at
Darragh as he slid through the doorway.

"His glorious return," the voice confirmed. "After his victory against
the horrors of this galaxy, Mister Saunders required rest, which is not
uncommon amongst the Gods of Earth. He has now completed the requisite
rest period, and I have been informed that he has since retreated to a
cave in search of wisdom, which is also not uncommon amongst the Gods of
Earth. I have received no additional updates."

Chir pieced this together for a moment, trying to make sense of the
madness that had been offered, but could only come to one conclusion.
"You believe Adrian Saunders is a divine being? *This* is why you've
taken control of my ship!?"

He was aware that humans, like many other species, had those who were
devout in their religious beliefs even when the advance of science
proved it foolish, and usually these religions were built around some
insubstantial being or intelligent natural force. The idea that someone
would invest the same belief in anything of actual flesh and blood---let
alone Adrian Saunders---beggared belief.

"The data cannot be refuted," the mysterious voice replied confidently,
"though too little exists for detailed analysis."

Keffa turned away from her consoles to address Chir. "We're moving.
Navigation is set for the middle latitudes of the deathworld, somewhere
around a coastal area."

Darragh, who'd quickly taken to his seat, turned around to add his own
report. "There's a field of debris in orbit. Tech--debris, looks like a
whole fleet of Hunter ships."

Chir nodded slowly; Adrian Saunders had destroyed another swarm of
Hunters? Sure, why not? It wasn't any more unlikely than what was
happening right now. The conversation with the mysterious stranger,
however, was not yet over. "How is it you came into the possession of
that vessel?"

"You are not required to know that," the voice replied. "You will answer
this instead: what miracles have you seen Mister Saunders perform? Many
are rumoured, but few are substantiated."

---

They were to be interrogated then, at least to some degree, which was
more or less as Chir would expect from an overwhelmingly powerful enemy.
There was still a certain advantage, however, in continuing to let it
believe in Adrian's divinity, and the consequences of it being informed
otherwise might be too lethal to consider. "Of course," he said, playing
along for now, "it's natural that any true believer would ask such a
question of his closest allies."

"You understand completely," the voice approved.

"No doubt you've heard of his abilities beyond those available to the
rest of humanity?" Chir asked, though it was essentially rhetorical.
"Incredible strength, amazing resilience and a regenerative capacity
beyond any other?"

"Such 'powers' are available to any human provided with Cruezzir in
sufficient quantity," the voice replied, much to Chir's surprise. The
effects of Cruezzir on humanity were not public knowledge, and he
strongly suspected efforts had been made to cover the whole situation
up, but this only confirmed that this person, whoever it was, was very
well informed.

Chir delved into his memories, back to the time when he had been a slave
alongside Adrian, and the days that had followed thereafter, and was
surprised to find that only a few memories truly stood out. "I saw him
survive an extended period in vacuum. I'm afraid anything else would
just be hearsay."

As little as this was, the stranger did not seem displeased by the scrap
of information; if anything it was glad to have it. "New data has been
recorded. Does either human have further information?"

"We picked him up at the edge of a black--zone," Keffa added, "that's an
area made unnavigable by presence of a singularity. He said he was close
enough that his starship had been torn apart by tidal forces... I just
don't see how he survived it."

The same way he survives anything, Chir supposed, but kept the thought
to himself. The stranger recorded the data, noting it was new even if it
was not actually substantiated, and seemed content to leave it at that.

"What about the Uman--hay?" Darragh asked.

"A hairy species with only one known member," the voice replied. "Corti
records have no known homeworld for this creature, but there are several
documented instances of it undertaking terrorist activities against
corporate and government facilities, including the savage killing of a
rogue human on a factory station. How does it relate?"

Darragh shrugged. "Yeah, well... that was Adrian as well. Look, I've got
to ask: are you some kind of robot?"

The stranger paused, marking the first sign of any hesitation they'd
seen thus far, and it was long enough for the pieces to fall together in
Chir's own mind. This was what he had been missing, some slight oddity
in how the thing had been speaking that simply didn't align with the
natural speech of humans he'd known.

"I am more correctly known as an artificial intelligence," the thing
replied, "or an 'A.I.' as your species more commonly term it. What
brought you to this realisation?"

"You don't talk like a normal person," Darragh said with a shrug, "and
it's a bit of a strange accent. Something just seemed off."

"This 'strange accent' is better known as 'cultivated Australian'," the
intelligence replied sharply, though it sounded as though it had needed
to answer this question before. "It is a reminder of your homeworld that
Mister Saunders might appreciate."

"Good luck with that," said Darragh, with no trace of irony, though Chir
suspected he simply wasn't human enough to see it. Such suspicions were
confirmed a moment later, whereupon making eye contact with Darragh,
Keffa barely stifled an amused snort.

This wasn't an uncommon experience by any measure, and was prevalent
amongst most species just entering the galaxy at large---most Gaoians
still communicated non--verbally by habit, even in the presence of
non--Gaoians---though older species became adapted to use a greater
verbal aspect. Humans were more nuanced than most, however, and Chir
doubted he'd ever fully understand every expression in the way they
managed by instinct, but at least the intelligence aboard the Zhadersil
had the same difficulty; it had not noticed the subtle exchange, and
took Darragh's words at face value. "Luck is not required, only
knowledge and ability. This conversation is over, and you will now be
landed in the vicinity of Mister Saunders."

This was not an optional journey, and the Devastator's systems,
completely controlled by this computer--mind, guided the starship down
into the atmosphere towards its ultimate goal. They did so in silence,
wary that anything they said might be overheard by their enemy, and Chir
wondered if he would ever trust the computers aboard his starship again.
Probably not, he judged, and looking around his command deck he wondered
why it was that every ship he possessed seemed to come with an
expiration date; of all the habits to inherit from the Human Disaster,
it had to be this one.

The only person who could fix it---or at least had any chance at fixing
it---was the Corti hacker, and even then he'd be paranoid about some
last vestige of maliciousness that had gone unnoticed.

But it didn't end there, and following the line of thought to its
logical conclusion meant that even their translators could be
compromised, and the very idea that every word they spoke was being
sent, stored and analysed by that thing aboard the Zhadersil was
anathema to every strategic bone in his body. How could they ever hope
to devise a plan when it knew their every utterance? The whole situation
was nothing short of a nightmare scenario.

The tension only elevated as the starship descended, and Chir was
grinding his teeth by the time the Devastator was passing through its
landing procedures. Only when they had the chance to leave did the
tension begin to break, but none of them would be happy until they were
away from the Zhadersil's influence.

"What are we---" Keffa began, only to stop short as Chir raised a hand
and coughed sharply.

"Translators," he said, shaking his head determinedly, and they seemed
to get the picture. Silence reigned as they worked to get themselves out
of the starship with as few words as possible, gestures taking the place
of speech and short, sharp coughs to gain attention; if the Zhadersil
*was* monitoring them, it wasn't learning much.

Disembarking the Devastator proved its own surprise, as both humans
found the deathworld's gravity overpowering for even human muscles.
Chastened by the experience they made a second attempt with the aid of
the same enviro--gear that Chir employed, and set off in the direction
where Adrian had landed his own vessel.

The surroundings were lightly forested woodlands, graced by a balmy
breeze and the smell of a salty sea. Chir found it comfortably
temperate, not drastically unlike Gao, though there was a weight to the
air he had not expected, and the scents were richer than anything his
homeworld had to offer. This was not unlike the last time he had visited
a deathworld, that time alongside Adrian, though that particular world
had been warmer and the scents earthier than they were floral, and it
was only mildly worrying to know that the contents of the air would
likely kill him if anything happened to the enviro--gear. As to animals
there was little to be noted, only the screech of distant birds and the
cheerful chirp of insects, and no sign that anything more dangerous
lurked beyond the tree--line. That was dangerous in itself, Chir
reasoned: it was far too easy to forget this place was still a
deathworld, and his hunting experience had taught him all he needed to
know of deathworld predators.

They did not need to walk for long before they came upon their
destination---not that it was difficult to find a refurbished Hunter
vessel set in the midst of an otherwise pristine landscape---and Chir
was pleased to see that it remained in surprisingly good condition in
spite of the battles it must have seen. More concerning was the way it
sat at the heart of a clear--felled area, surrounded by a barricade of
roughly worked lumber, and was patrolled by a group of tall, hairy
creatures universally armed with fusion blades. That these creatures had
seen them was soon apparent when a handful broke away from their
encampment and set to intercept Chir's little group. Again Chir was more
wary than scared, the presence of Irbzrkian stunguns was reassurance
enough, but he might have retreated without them.

Keffa and Darragh's own behaviour was of greater interest to him. They
were of markedly different heights, and it was therefore natural for
them to fall out of step with each other, but it wasn't until this
moment that Chir realised that Darragh had barely drifted from his
position to his front and right, and Keffa from her own to his left.
They had been spread out, but now that there was a threat they fell into
step beside Chir with an animal tension not unlike a predator that
guarded its lair. It must have been a deathworlder thing, because while
he could name nothing specifically dangerous about their movements, and
while their hands never settled on the stunguns holstered at their
sides, he knew in his core that if these tall and hairy strangers were
set on violence they'd get more than they bargained for.

---

The hairy creatures seemed to take the same meaning from these subtle
movements, and drew to a stop several strides away as the humans ceased
moving forward. It was as though there was an invisible line that
divided the two groups, and though nothing was being said, Chir could
sense a communication far older and deeper than the spoken word. From
this vantage both groups could observe each other in detail, without
risking unwanted conflict, and the two groups regarded each other for
several moments before any further action was taken. These creatures
were not as naked as Chir had first thought, but were clad in garments
of similar colour and style that had been torn short rather than cut to
their current design. Amongst the three of them there was one whose
ragged garments were adorned with strange trinkets, and it was
ultimately this one who stepped forth to speak on his fellows' behalf.

"Hello," it greeted them, unmistakably male, and curiously in the tongue
of the humans. "I am Lord Groddi. The small grey fiend said we must meet
you, and take you to the Chosen One."

"Ten credits he means Adrian or Jen," Darragh murmured.

"No bet," Keffa murmured back. "Small grey fiend?"

"Askit," Darragh determined. "No doubt about it."

Taking his cue from this deathworlder, Chir imitated the way he had
stepped forward, and matched the distance, lest they assume one of the
humans was in charge. Since it was practically impossible that this
primitive being would have a translator implant, however, he turned to
Darragh to act as interpreter. "Tell him that I must speak with the
'small, grey fiend' first. It is of vital importance."

Darragh did so, without comprehending the need behind it, and only when
he was done did Chir give his reason. "Askit and I both speak Dominion
standard."

It might have taken a moment for understanding to set in, but neither
human argued now that they were one more reminded of the hazards of
speaking freely. They remained quiet and watchful as Lord Groddi and his
hairy folk led them back towards Adrian's starship, passing though the
small compound as they did so. The scene behind the barricades was of
interest to Chir, and he studied it carefully, noting several primitive
shelters of recent construct, populated by a handful of the hairy
deathworlders who were currently engaged in some variety of friendly
gambling.

They were escorted past all of this, and straight to the door of the
starship whereupon Keffa and Darragh took up position either side of the
door. The former leant against the outer hull in a pose that might have
passed as relaxed if you didn't notice she'd kept her footing, while the
latter stood apart in a more observant stance, and neither of them were
swayed by Groddi's claim that nothing here would endanger them.

Chir stepped inside with a certain sense of foreboding, and it was to
his great relief that he found Askit really was waiting inside the
starship and had gone so far as to meet Chir in the corridor. He looked
worn and weary, and far from pleased to see Chir again. "Those
primitives really can't do anything right."

"Before you say anything else," Chir said hurriedly, switching over to
Dominion standard, "I wish to have my translator checked."

Askit inclined his head, studying Chir with that renowned Corti
intensity, and finally nodded approvingly. "Wise of you. Wiser still
that you came to me. This way."

Gesturing towards the rear of the vessel, Askit did not wait for Chir
before he started down that direction, and the two of them soon stepped
into the cargo bay where a mess of components and cables were loosely
assembled on top of a crate. "Take a seat."

"You're working out here?" Chir asked, finding a comfortable set of
boxes to sit down on. Normally the Corti hacker worked at a terminal,
with no shortage of comforts; far different to what he found out here.

Whether or not Askit found it important was never to be revealed, for he
worked in silence for several \[minutes\] before the need for an update
became intolerable. "Well?"

"Not good," Askit replied, frowning as he looked up from his screen. "It
seems that it bypassed my upgraded protections; there's additional
software installed, and transcripts of everything you've said and heard.
They're all in a cache, pending connection via a starship communication
link, so we still have a chance to deal with the problem."

Chir frowned as well. "You're saying that like you haven't removed it."

Askit smiled in the unsettling way that only a Corti could manage "Why
destroy what you can use? I've disabled it for now, but I can turn it
back on at any time."

There was a cunning in the idea that Chir could appreciate, even if he
didn't like the idea of leaving the malicious software inside his head.
"I'll agree to this for the time being, but I want it removed when it is
no longer useful."

Askit agreed to that without argument; he plainly had other things on
his mind. "Bring your humans inside so I can set them up as well.
There's no need for them to mingle with the locals, and it'll save
repeating myself later."

Chir went and collected the pair of humans from where they still waited
as he'd left them, and led them back to the makeshift computer workshop
in Spot's cargo bay. They greeted the Corti with varied amounts of
enthusiasm, finding seats of their own amongst the many crates displaced
for his working area, and allowed him to make the necessary adjustments
before the conversation proceeded.

"You're probably wondering why I'm back here," the Corti said when his
work was complete. "This is the backup computer core we've kept in case
of emergencies, and in case we ever needed something to experiment on. I
have a log of the Artificial Intelligence's attempts to access our
active computer system, and have been developing defences against it."

"It took complete control of our ship," Keffa said, "and landed us
nearby, but we can't be sure it doesn't still have access."

"It almost certainly does," Askit replied, a strangely predatorial smile
spreading across his face, "but that will just give me more data to work
with. This thing thinks that *Adrian* is a god, and it's not going to be
happy when it finds itself mistaken. We think it's better if it never
gets that chance."

"Speaking of Adrian..." Chir began, letting the question ask itself. It
seemed extremely unlikely that he'd be seeking wisdom in a cave, as the
A.I. would have them believe, and even mentioning it would make Chir
feel just as foolish.

"We've placed him in stasis," Askit explained. "He took some serious
injuries from the last battle and we're not confident he will survive
without additional assistance. Jen and the V'Straki, however, are out
hunting the indigenous fauna---meat--eating seems to be ubiquitous
amongst the deathworlders encountered thus far---while Trycrur is
attempting to decipher the scans of the Zhadersil's weaponry so we know
what we're dealing with. Oh, and then there's Layla, who is traumatised
and hiding in a dark room by herself."

"What?!" Chir cried, and looked at Darragh and Keffa in confusion, only
to have them respond with expressions that were just as confused.
"How... is she here?"

"Difficult question," Askit replied, not answering it. "Let's consider
Adrian instead: he was hit by three Nerve Jam grenades."

"Impossible," Chir blurted. "I mean no disrespect, but humans are not
invulnerable to Nerve Jam, and he should be dead. I take it that the
situation was not as simple as you made it sound?"

"I would not call the situation 'simple', no," Askit agreed. "We placed
him in stasis after a cursory examination revealed that none of us knew
anything about medicine, and we do not have medical facilities aboard
this ship."

"But mine does," Chir said, understanding. "But the A.I. invasion will
need to be defeated first. Until then there can be no hope of taking
Adrian aboard; I have no doubt it would prove disastrous."

Askit nodded unhappily. "Indeed. I was hoping against it, but there is
nothing to be done about it now, and I have already formulated a plan to
deal with whatever situation presents itself."

"How long is that likely to take? Darragh queried, and they all looked
to Askit as he mulled over the answer.

Eventually he shrugged, and replied with a phrase undoubtedly borrowed
from Adrian. "How long\'s a piece of string?"

---

**THE TROPICAL WILDS OF AGWAR**

**JENNIFER DELANEY**

After their descent from orbit, Jen had given the Agwaren soldiers the
orders they needed to keep themselves out of trouble, and had taken the
richly deserved nap required to deal with the mountain of shit she'd
just been handed. Most of it was outside her control, or could be put
off until the issue with Adrian was resolved, or it could be handed over
to Askit and Trycrur for as long as they remained on this verdant world.
That had given her little to do, and when Xayn had suggested they go
hunting together she had practically leapt at the chance. It wasn't
shirking her duties, not when there was nothing much for her to do in
the first place, but she was well and truly glad to get away from
stewing in her thoughts, or keeping company with a group of
deathworlders who practically worshipped her. Out here she could put it
from her mind, and there was nothing to focus on but the hunt.

"You were correct, Jennifer Delaney," Xayn said quietly, his rasping
voice almost a whisper as he relayed the message just received from the
starship, "it *was* a starship you heard earlier: Chir has arrived."

"That's at least three more mouths to feed: all the more reason for us
to take home something worth eating," said Jen in an equal whisper.
Neither of them wanted to disturb the six beasts that grazed nearby, too
dull and stupid to flinch at the proximity of predators unless they
actually saw them. They were the size of pigs, though much huskier and
ill--equipped for quick movements, and Jen had come to call them
'hogwarens' despite them tasting more like rabbit. There was nothing to
prey on them out here, and they were numerous enough to provide for the
entire group, but they would spook if they were fully disturbed and
scatter in all directions. "Tell Askit we\'ll be back after we\'re done
out here."

Xayn did so, then turned to Jen and gave a short nod. "I will slay the
three on the left."

She smiled slightly. "Suits me just fine," she said, licking lips that
had dried with anticipation. Hunting alongside the V'Straki had been
surprisingly enjoyable, though she'd had no such expectations when
they'd first started; but he had proven himself an asset and not only
because of the silent and deadly weapons which he brought with him. He
was a carnivore, and hunted with an instinct not far removed from his
raptor--like ancestors, and he'd had plenty of experience in
replenishing food supplies on the world he'd called home. That
experience showed in his skill, but Jen still proved the better shot;
chalk one up to Cruezzir--boosted humanity.

It had taken them no more than ten minutes to creep up on this group of
hogwarens, moving slowly and crouching below the scrub where they could
not be seen. Jen had not known much of hunting---her experience on
Cimbrean had been akin to a fox amongst the chickens---but Xayn had
shown her how and where to move, and how to keep her scent from giving
her away. She was a quick learner, however, and had quickly adapted her
techniques whenever instructed, and after more than a dozen such trips
they each knew the readiness in the others' poise. Here and now they
were squatting behind the brush, deadly still and listening to the
movements of the hogwarens as they snuffled around the undergrowth,
picking out the general direction of the beasts marked for them. So it
was that when Xayn's muscles twitched to send him springing towards the
hapless beasts, with twin guns firing, Jen reacted with even greater
speed, and snapped off a single deadly shot at each of her three
hogwarens. Every beast was dead before Xayn had even landed.

"Once again you are too fast for me," Xayn said, releasing a
dissatisfied snort, although his own quarry had barely lasted a second
longer than Jen's own.

"This is about the food, Xayn," Jen chided, though she could not
suppress a self--satisfied grin. "Well... maybe I'm a little bit
competitive. The main thing is we've got them all, and that'll give us
enough to eat for another couple days."

Xayn did not respond, except for an incoherent muttering, and set about
the second part of the work: cutting away useless body parts. They had
discovered this after the first time they'd hunted the creatures,
finding that much of the beasts were weighty and effectively inedible,
and so they had decided to save themselves some effort and only return
what could be used. A fusion blade made quick work of the bony,
oversized head, the hooves, and other superfluous growths, and
ultimately left each beast at about half of its former weight. From
there it was just a matter of retrieving the hover platform---already
prepared with a solid crate---and then fitting the bulky remains inside.
This also proved more art than science, and it eventuated that the limbs
were packed in atop the rest of the bodies.

The hardest part of the process, however, was actually getting the
damned thing back to the camp; all that dense, deathworlder flesh
weighed enough to make steering a total nightmare, and it took their
combined efforts to keep it moving in an agreeable direction. What she
wouldn't have given for a basic cart with wheels! Hover technology, as
it turned out, was not always the ideal solution.

Five hours must have passed before they finally returned to the hastily
erected compound that housed the Agwarens and protected the starship,
and they drew much attention from the two bored Agwaren soldiers tasked
with defending the entrance. More of them arrived as they passed through
the gate, and Jen was glad to release it into their care. Jen and Xayn
were responsible for bringing home the bacon, but it was the soldiers
who butchered it, treated it and cooked it up on cobbled--together
hotplates.

With her work done, however, she could turn her attention towards the
pair of humans sitting near the entrance to the starship. Neither had
moved during her arrival, but they both watched on with interest. One
she recognised, there was no way she'd have forgotten Darragh's boyish
face, but the other---a young woman---she found unfamiliar, and both of
them were wearing enviro--gear.

She approached them, and Darragh rose as she grew near, recoiling only
slightly as she embraced him with a grin.

"Darragh!" she greeted him brightly, and laughed at his reaction. She
was still covered with the dried blood of several hunts, and there'd not
been much chance to find a clean pair of clothes. "It's good to see you
again! Alive as well! I brought dinner, so I hope you like rabbit."

"Glad to see you as well, Jen," he replied, the familiarity of his Irish
accent vaguely comforting. "We were worried for you, after you vanished
like you did, and I'm still not sure we've got the whole of the story;
Askit's a cagey little bugger."

She laughed again; he\'d be hearing no argument from her on that matter.
Then her eyes slipped to the girl nearby, who was yet to approach, and
Jen waggled her eyebrows at Darragh. "Girlfriend?"

He blushed. "That\'s Keffa and... not really. I mean, things have not
eventuated as I might have hoped in that regard."

"Pity," Jen said with a wink. "She\'s pretty."

He frowned at that, and Jen thought she\'d maybe gone too far; it was
too long since she\'d been around proper humans, and her social senses
were a complete mess. "Sorry," she apologised, "I just thought...
anyway, what\'s with the enviro--gear?"

"Atrophy I think," he said unhappily, but there was a deeper concern he
wasn\'t voicing. "We\'ve been in lower--grav for too long, so Earthlike
is way too strong."

Jen had heard about that sort of thing before, though she struggled to
recall the details. She knew that astronauts had needed frequent
exercise to stay healthy in space, but Jen doubted that either Darragh
or Keffa had been doing anything of the sort. Until now she'd barely
lent it a moment's thought, and it was likely that both she and Adrian
had been protected by their constant exposure to Cruezzir.

"Times like this you need a doctor," she said. "I heard what happened to
your Corti surgeon, it's a shame. He was the one who installed my own
damned implants."

That was a matter Jen had been more than a little shocked to learn
about, and the continued presence of her own translator now filled her
with a slight sense of dread. She was protected by Askit's upgrades, but
only to whatever degree that was possible, and she wouldn't feel right
until she'd had the whole thing removed in favour of external devices.

Darragh scratched his nose, discomforted by the topic. "Couldn\'t be
helped, and the whole thing was just fecking mental."

"You must be Jen," Keffa said, finally making an awkward approach. She
had a hard but feminine voice, with an accent that was vaguely American,
and did not seem the friendly type. "I've seen pictures, but there's
nothing like reality for putting a face to a name."

Jen smiled in return, though it seemed this girl held something against
her. There was probably no fixing that, not right away, and while Jen
decided to be civil there was certainly no need to be overly friendly in
return. "Askit was lax on details, so it seems you've got me at a
disadvantage, Keffa."

---

"I doubt it," the younger girl said flatly.

She offered no further comment, and when Jen glanced to Darragh for
attitude or explanation she found none to be had; maybe he wasn't aware
of the reason, but knowing lads it seemed more likely he wasn't even
aware of the problem. Any opportunity to press the issue vanished with
the sudden appearance of Chir.

He stepped out the moment the starship door opened, ambling slowly from
the ship towards the three of them gathered several paces away, and
making good use of his own enviro--gear. He was pleased to see her, but
he carried a greater darkness as well; this was clearly a Gaoian who had
seen some shit.

"You look well, Jen," he said upon joining their circle, but his voice
held an unsteadiness not usual for his character. "You are recognisable
even if your hair is short, or if you're covered in... all that blood. I
admit fearing the worst."

"Are you alright, Chir?" she asked, and from the attention paid by Keffa
and Darragh she realised it must be a new condition. Whatever had
brought on this mood had done so recently, and the only cause she could
think of was either Adrian or the female Gaoian they had recently held
imprisoned: Layla.

The black--furred Gaoian straightened slightly, bringing himself up to
his full height, but quickly deflated thereafter. "I am... not. Today
has tested me, and I fear it found me wanting. Askit will not explain
this matter with Layla, and she is incapable of making any sense
whatsoever! We left her behind in safety to care for her children, but
now she not only fails to remember such things, but believes me her
enemy and oppressor!"

He grew quiet, and the atmosphere grew uncomfortable. None of them knew
what could console him, and none of them had any explanations to offer.
Jen guessed that maybe---just *maybe*---it had something to do with this
'breaking of history' that nobody would tell her about. Maybe it'd been
worse than Askit had led her to believe; suddenly it seemed more than
likely.

*Shit*, she thought, *just how in the hell do you break a whole universe
anyway?*

"Best to just leave her to her own recovery," Darragh suggested. "I'm
sure she'll be ready to talk about it eventually, and from the sounds of
things we've got nothing but time."

It was probably bad advice, but Jen wasn't sure how these things worked
for Gaoians. If Layla *was* in the middle of a complete mental
breakdown, though, Jen was more concerned with preventing Chir from
sharing the same fate.

Rather unshockingly, Chir did not look convinced. "Thank you Darragh,
but I shall have to consider what to do. Perhaps once the Corti has
finished his full system sweep we can put her through the medical suite
as well."

"System sweep?" Jen asked. *Had something happened in orbit?*

"That fecking A.I. took over our ship," Darragh explained. "Translators
too. We've got them under control, but it'll take longer for him to make
sure our ship isn't going to kidnap us again, and Adrian's treatment is
going to have to wait as well."

The mention of Adrian reminded Jen of the cold knot that had grown in
her gut over the past several days; the one she'd done her outright best
to completely ignore. It had been her greatest relief to discover that
Adrian was still alive, but the great weight of survivor's guilt had
only been lifted for a moment before she'd learned what saving her again
had cost him. She still had plenty to say to him, and she'd never
forgive him if he really did go and die without giving her the chance.

"So I'm told your ship is decent enough to have some automated medical
systems?" Jen asked, confirming what Askit had already told her. She
might have taken a look at it for herself if not for coming from the
other direction and the burden of the hunt making that kind of detour so
impractical. Xayn had also done his best to describe the ship on their
return journey, though 'clean', 'military' and 'bigger--than--Spot' were
not the best descriptors. It was apparently a very capable ship in its
own right, but Adrian had built Spot to be as damned strong and fast as
conceivably possible.

"It does," Chir replied, though with a waver of uncertainty that led
into the provisos. "The automated suite is not extensive; if it is
lacking we shall have no choice but to hope for the best; I somehow
doubt any of your deathworlders are medically trained."

"They are only soldiers," Jen replied, leaving it at that. Any
medically--trained Agwarens she'd met had died in the anti--matter
explosion, and what they had known was really only relevant to other of
their kind.

From there the conversation steered towards Askit and his work, such as
when it was supposed to begin and end, but for Jen there was no answer
that could please. She wanted to see Adrian healthy again---*of course
she wanted that!*---but she also dreaded the conversation that would
follow, and there was no plan to be made for it. It all felt more like a
trashy soap--opera than real life, and if trends continued she wouldn't
have a year before discovering a secret twin with a diabolical plan kill
her and steal her life.

"Well, we've not got all the time in the world," Jen said once the
discussion had come to a close. "I don't imagined Mister Thinky up there
will wait forever, and after what happened to the Hunters I have to
assume it's only a matter of time before they send scouts to find their
missing swarm."

"Then the people here are doomed," Chir said fatalistically, although it
was the most realistic outcome. "These deathworlders are not like
humans, they will be overpowered and devoured, and there will be nothing
to stop them when they do."

"That doesn't mean I'm just going to let it happen," Jen told them; she
wasn't going to abandon them after saving them twice. "They don't
deserve to be wiped out by those monsters."

"Obviously," Darragh replied. "Nobody deserves *that*, but rescuing a
whole species from the Hunters by ourselves? That's a big fecking task
without even knowing how many there are. A few more than the ones you've
got milling around here, I imagine?"

"There are more," Jen said, "but I don't know where. They build their
cities underground, which is about the only thing they've got going for
them if the Hunters come back."

Groddi had given her an overview of their people after realising how
completely ignorant she was, telling her of his people and their ways,
and the few major cities that he knew about. They were all underground,
and each was effectively self--ruling because no city could conquer
another with the threat posed by the Dark One.

"Well, there's this big fuck--off ship in orbit," Keffa noted, breaking
from her self--imposed silence. "You could probably fit a few in that,
if we can get it working *for* us."

They all regarded her as they pondered the idea, and she shifted
awkwardly under the attention. The challenges were not insignificant,
but neither were they insurmountable, and when they had Adrian back
perhaps he'd manage to convince the A.I. to help of its own volition.
For a prize such as this it seemed worth the risk.

"It seems to me," Chir said, stroking at the side of his ear as he
considered it for himself, "it could work, but any plan would need
*Adrian* involved, simply because he is the focus of the A.I.'s
fixation. Perhaps, however, somebody else might do the talking."

They all agreed to that unanimously; whatever good might be said of
Adrian Saunders, his particular brand of diplomatic skills were unlikely
to make the list.

"So let me get this straight," Darragh summarised, "we're going with a
plan where an all--powerful robot--mind shows up and saves everyone from
the terrible menace of space? Are they familiar with the concept of a
Deus Ex Machina?"

"If they're not," Jen said, "they soon will be."

---

**DATE POINT: 3Y 9M 3W 5D AV**

**ABOARD THE DEVASTATOR, AGWAREN DEATHWORLD**

**ASKIT**

It was no easy feat to purge a starship\'s computer systems from an
unknown digital influence---a fact that Askit knew better than most,
although he was usually taking advantage of the fact---and he had spent
considerable time preparing for the effort. This was a project that
would require he actually venture aboard the starship, and shut down
major parts of the computer core while he scoured it piece by piece for
any fragment of suspicious code. This was not something he expected to
happen easily, but he was not ready to uncover the infestation he found.
Whatever the artificial intelligence was, it had produced a piece of
programming that had subjugated every major system aboard, and pieces of
it lurked in even the most unimportant database.

With Xayn\'s help he had disconnected the computer core before even
beginning the process, shutting down every additional ship system that
might pose a hazard to his health and powering the core itself through a
backup power--supply. It took a full day to just prepare the starship
for the investigation, but significantly less to establish the sheer
hopelessness of any attempt to fix the problem.

"You\'re saying you can\'t do it?" Jen asked, her face set without
expression but her poise holding more tension than Askit liked. "I was
under the impression you were some kind of computer genius."

Askit glared at her; he didn\'t like having his technical abilities
questioned by anyone, especially not somebody whose best technical
advice was 'turning it off and on again'. "Even the best doctor can\'t
bring the dead back to life. I cannot fix those systems, but I do not
have to fix when I can simply replace."

"The extra computer core," Jen inferred and nodded her approval. "What
needs to be done?"

"It needs to be moved," Askit explained. "Then it needs to be connected.
Xayn here is more than capable of managing the latter, but moving the
core is harder work that will require yourself and two of the natives to
add their muscle."

The core itself wasn't heavy, it was actually quite a small part of the
entire setup, but the support systems would also need replacing and it
was easier to do it all at once than a piece at a time. That meant he
needed muscles, and the local deathworlders were powerful even by human
standards. What they lacked was speed and agility, neither of which were
necessary for moving heavy objects, and Jen could assist by ensuring
they didn't bump it around too much in the process. Adrian had managed
the job on his own, of course, but that had been helped by his
ridiculous physique and the greatly reduced gravity of Cimbrean.

Jen didn't argue, instead promising him all the help he needed and
making good on it immediately; the morning wasn't even over before a
group of Agwarens were carrying the equipment under direction of Jen's
guiding hand, and Askit was privately impressed at how well she
translated the techno--jargon into something the primitives could
understand.

Not that they were stupid, Askit reminded himself. He knew that they
were merely ignorant, as might be expected of any species in its
technological infancy, and though it was setting the bar low, they were
clearly smarter than any Vzk'tk. It was only their ignorance of...
well... damned near everything that made it hard to tell just how smart
they might be. Either way, Askit was glad to have someone around with
the patience needed to deal with that while he stood out of the way and
in another room entirely.

Only once all the heavy lifting was complete, and after Jen had escorted
the Agwarens out of the starship, that Askit emerged to begin his work.

Xayn glanced up from where he was connecting the cables of the
replacement core. "I am glad you could join us."

"You seem to be getting the hang of sarcasm," Askit replied.

"I've nearly completed the first connections," Xayn advised,
disregarding the comment. "We will be ready to test it momentarily."

To Askit's surprise this wasn't an understatement; Xayn had managed to
connect the new core in surprisingly short order, and little time had
passed before it was starting its initialisation sequence.

Xayn observed the monitoring equipment that tracked the health of the
system. "Energy levels are adequate, and there were no unexpected errors
in start sequence."

They had sent the Devastator's own reactor into a hibernation state,
locking down its computer systems until they could wipe the software and
roll out a new version. That was the first thing on their to--do list
after making sure the core systems were under control. There were, as
Askit had expected, attacks from them almost as soon as the core was
done initialising, but it would take them longer to overcome his
upgraded security than it'd take him to resolve the infection. Already
the security software was identifying the sources of infection and
quarantining them for study, and it wouldn't be long before there was
more than enough data for him to work with.

"It works so far?" Xayn asked after several quiet moments.

"It works so far," Askit replied, not yet willing to be enthusiastic; he
knew there was a lot of work to be done before he could call this a
victory. "Once I've cleared these systems I'll adjust my security
software, and then we can start on the reactor."

"And this will take as long as a piece of string?" Xayn queried.

Askit almost chuckled at the broken phrasing. "Precisely."

That piece of string turned out to be very long indeed, and about as
tangled. The core systems had been cleaned, but when Askit had started
to study the infection in detail he found that every instance was subtly
different, and that the programming behind it made no sense whatsoever.
It was not logical, or at least not in the way that a Corti was logical,
but seemed as messy as anything else in nature. This, he was forced to
concede, was as much a life--form as it was code, and it would require
new methods to counteract it.

So it was that he found himself putting the situation before Jennifer
Delaney. "I want to know how things are made on Earth. Digital
infections, and the computer security needed to defeat them."

She regarded him with some surprise, and frowned thoughtfully as she
considered the question. "When I worked in the industry, my department
mainly provided technical support to our own company. Our security was
total shit, because nobody locked down the computers, and we were always
cleaning up all sorts of messes as a result. I can't say I miss it."

"The Galaxy has *thousands* of malicious software programs," Askit
replied, "with several permutations to each; I *may* have come up with a
few of those myself. Security works by cataloguing those threats so that
they can be found on a scan."

Jen laughed, first a little and then a lot. "Ah, my poor little Corti...
I remember reading that Earth produces around a million new malware
threats on a *daily* basis."

Askit paused. "You are lying."

"Like your security," Jen continued, ignoring his accusation, "we have a
whole load of companies putting together security software, with
constant updates to their database, and the best security software uses
something called a 'heuristic' method. That's where the software figures
out threats on its own."

That seemed to be about as much as Jen knew on that topic, though Askit
was still astounded at how data could ever be made safe with so many
threats lingering in their networks. If he ever had the misfortune of
visiting that planet, he resolved he would never connect to their
computer networks.

Her answer had not been detailed, but Jen had ultimately pointed him in
the right direction. It was a step beyond what he had been used to, and
fell more in line with the production systems that took a request and
intelligently assembled an item that met its buyer's needs, most common
in assembly technology. Turning that same narrow intelligence towards
identifying malicious software would take some work, but it was indeed
the only proper method to identify suspicious processes based on their
behaviour rather than pre--registered markers.

Askit was so pleased with himself that he smiled as he worked. The A.I.
had produced a weapon that he had not seen before, and he had responded
with a tool that would destroy it. This was a digital arms race, the
survival of the fittest: deathworlder evolution in the digital world.

"You're smiling," Xayn noted from his own instruments.

Askit snorted. "Because I am a digital *god* and my creation will win!
This 'artificial intelligence' has only taught me to do things better,
and this software it has created has only improved my understanding of
how the intelligence itself may be destroyed."

Xayn arched a reptilian eyebrow. "In other words, we're ready to fix the
reactor?"

Askit leaned towards the lizardman with a conspiratorial leer. "We are
ready, my V'Straki companion, to fix *everything*."

*With the notable exception of Earth*, he mentally added; there probably
wasn't enough code in the universe to fix that computerised mess. At
those rates, did they even have any code that *wasn't* malicious?

Despite his boasts, they began the process with only the reactor as they
had originally planned, and the heuristic diagnostics began detecting
the many sources of infection almost as soon as everything came online.
It froze each item as it detected it, generating a list of hundreds in
mere moments and thousands soon after, and with every item scanned the
security database expanded its understanding of what this virus was and
how it may be found. By the time it was done it hardly seemed necessary
to roll out replacement software, but there had been an agreement and
Chir would insist they abide by it.

---

Ultimately it remained a painstaking process that enlightened both Askit
and Xayn to just how many separate computer systems a starship had, and
both of them slept twice before the work was finally complete and Chir
was allowed to return.

"Welcome aboard," Xayn greeted the black--furred Gaoian as they
re--entered the starship, now properly lit with the re--activation of
its reactors. "You will find everything except the computer core as you
left it."

Chir surveyed it with trepidation, as though he didn't trust the ship
not to physically attack him at any moment. He allowed himself to be
escorted all the way to the command deck where Askit gestured for him to
take his old seat.

"Let me assure you that these systems are clean," Askit said after a
length of nervous inspection. "They couldn't possibly *be* cleaner after
all the effort we've put into them. The communications system remains
disabled for reasons that should be obvious."

Chir frowned. "You\'re sure?"

Askit nodded. "So very sure."

That seemed to be good enough for the Gaoian, who immediately relaxed by
an observable measure. He was still wary, but no longer was he worried
by every lens, nor at every word he spoke. "The medical systems are
ready for Adrian, then?"

"They are," Askit replied. "You may bring him aboard at any time, but
first I need the compromised core returned to my workshop in Spot's
cargo hold. I have more work to do with it."

"You're not going to watch the procedure?" Chir asked, somewhat
surprised; it was no secret that Askit generally preferred to remain
nearby whenever these sorts of things were going on.

"I don't currently have the time to just sit around," he replied
truthfully, even if it also meant he'd avoid the ensuing conversation
between Adrian and Jen; even at his most analytical that was one thing
bound to make him feel awkward.

Chir inclined his head, but didn\'t contest the excuse. Instead he began
another situation entirely. "I'll take care of it, but first I want both
of you to tell me what you think of Darragh and Keffa."

"They are humans," Xayn replied, leaving it at that.

Askit sighed on Chir's behalf. "What in the void are you actually
asking, Chir?"

"They were bonding," Chir explained. "Then they stopped, and now I am
not sure whether they like each other or not. Neither will answer the
question when I put it to them."

"Human relationships, Chir," Askit replied, "they don't make sense, not
even to other humans. Not even to the humans involved!"

"That would certainly explain their body--language," Chir mused. "It
rarely matches the things they say. I believe I need to consider this
further."

Askit was content to leave things there and return to Spot, but Chir had
one final thing to say. "I want you to tell me about Layla."

"I will not say more than I have, Chir," Askit replied with a resolute
shake of his head. "I've told you enough."

"You've told me to ignore her," Chir growled. "That 'she's not the
female that I knew'? That is certainly true, I have never seen a Gaoian
so completely desolate as that female! I must know this, Corti, for
myself and for my species: what was done to her?"

Askit glanced to Xayn; both of them knew the other would say nothing
about what had actually occurred, they were each aware that the stakes
were far too high. Letting Chir in on the secret might seem reasonable,
given his longstanding relationship with Adrian, Jen and others of the
group, but you didn't keep a secret by telling it.

"It may sound ridiculous to you," Xayn answered, "but there are secrets
too large to be shared. Nobody will give you the answers you seek,
Gaoian, no matter how much you might deserve them."

*Well said*, thought Askit; *combine this with the sarcasm and the
V'Straki shows signs of developing some depth to his character.*

Chir had little to say to that, only gazing at them blackly while they
left him to the command deck, but whatever his thoughts on the matter he
still arranged for a team of natives to move the Devastator's old
computer core as requested. Another group, including Jen, bore the
stasis pod in the other direction, carrying Adrian's suspended form to
the medical room.

Askit was shortly left alone aboard Spot with nothing but his work and
the ever--present consciousness of Trycrur.

"You\'re not listening in?" Trycrur asked, surprised; knowing his normal
practices better than anyone.

"No I am not," Askit replied. "Not this time, anyway."

"He will be fine," Trycrur reassured him, though the fact that she had
no way of actually knowing that did nothing to reassure him.

"The work I'm doing needs to be done whether he's fine or not," Askit
replied. "The need is even greater if it's the latter."

"The security software," Trycrur assumed.

Askit shook his head as he started accessing the contaminated core. "The
security software is as complete as it can be until I have more
specimens. I am *developing* this virus for that reason."

"But not to protect us from future attempts," Trycrur surmised; there
were benefits to being a digitised mind, amongst which was the ability
to spend a lot of effort considering a problem without looking like you
were. "Will it even work against the A.I.?"

Askit shrugged; he had no way of actually knowing that until he tried
it, but he was not without comparison to draw from. "Have you ever
examined your own code?"

"Yes, of course," she admitted. "You think it's similar?"

"It's similar to the virus," Askit told her, but quickly hurried on
before he gave offense. "There is a similarity in general terms. Both
have an organic--like structure that works without being logical. Your
mind developed as the virus now develops. It is my hope that the A.I.
functions in just the same way, along with every Hierarchy mind we have
ever encountered."

She was silent for a moment. "Askit... that could annihilate all of
them. Are we really willing to go that far? Humans call that 'genocide',
but I've heard it's not a popular thing."

The word parsed through his translator after a moment, and he found he
smiled grimly; of *course* the humans would have a word for that sort of
thing. "They have another expression for it, Trycrur: 'the survival of
the fittest'. And *that* is who we are."

---

**DATE POINT: 3Y 9M 3W 7D AV**

**ABOARD THE DEVASTATOR, LANDED ON AGWAR**

**JENNIFER DELANEY**

There were five of them waiting: Xayn, Chir, and all humans on hand,
while the Agwarens continued their work in maintaining the little camp
they\'d put together. It was a respectable effort, considering that
their entire manufacturing base had been annihilated in an anti--matter
blast half a world away, and the work kept them from dwelling on their
circumstances.

Jen wished she could avoid dwelling on her own, but here she was, pacing
back and forth like a caged animal while the others sat around with
varying degrees of patience. Her mood was similarly bestial as they
waited, and her companions had quickly learned that silence was
currently the preferred state.

They were all inside the Devastator's medical room, which was
surprisingly spacious enough to house them all comfortably. This would
have seemed logical enough, if Jen had been in any state to judge it,
because a mercenary ship would doubtless need a substantial medical
capacity for processing several injured crewmen at a time, but for the
moment it simply seemed convenient.

The room itself was silent apart from her pacing and the gentle whir of
machinery in the sealed auto--surgery, where they'd recently managed to
get Adrian's significant mass up onto the work--bench before retreating
from the room so that it could activate. This part was not the problem,
however, but rather the state of Adrian's battered body as they pulled
it from stasis: purple--blue and fever hot.

"How long is this thing going to take?" she hissed, stopping in front of
the terminal and watching the stream of diseases and injuries flow past;
it scarcely seemed possible that a man could survive even half of that.

"Probably more than half an hour?" Darragh suggested, frowning at her,
and managing to hold her gaze when she turned it on him. "We've got no
idea how long. Neither of us have ever used the thing, and we're not
juiced up on magic space medicine."

The diagnostics completed a moment later, before Jen could formulate an
answer, and she turned her full attention towards the results. "Shit."

"That bad?" Darragh asked with no trace of humour.

"Worse," Jen said as she read through the results in further detail.
"Nervous system is shot to hell, uniform bleeding close to the skin...
unknown neurological damage."

"That bad." Darragh repeated, much more grimly.

"Can it fix him?" Keffa asked.

Jen recognised a waver of fear breaking in the younger woman's voice.
*Ah*, she thought, *so that's why she doesn't like me.*

Xayn's response was less concerned. "Do not be worried, Adrian Saunders
cannot be beaten by such a short list of injuries."

---

"I don't think it works that way, mate," Darragh said quietly. "But as
Keffa said... can it?"

There was a warning on the screen, indicating that there was nothing to
be done. Jen decided to ignore it. "Let's find out."

---

**ABOARD THE DEVASTATOR, LANDED ON AGWAR**

**ADRIAN SAUNDERS**

At no time in history had a good day begun by waking up in a medical
chamber surrounded by slowly whirring instruments that were working all
by themselves. With that as a clearly established fact, it was basically
about as pleasant as any of Adrian's most memorable days.

*Fucking awesome*, he thought, giving his surroundings a quick once over
and finding it about as unpleasant as he'd been expecting. His last
memories were fuzzy, mainly of getting out of that damned suit and
then... well, then nothing. Provided that this was not some terrible
excuse for an afterlife, he might have been unconscious for any length
of time. Hell, if you factored in stasis it might even be centuries.

Right now, however, he was in pain. It was absolutely dreadful pain,
sharp like knives being twisted through his flesh, but it was distant
and detached through an adrenaline fugue, and he did not look forward to
a time when that stopped being the case. It felt like every nerve in his
body was as raw as fuck, probably some sort of latent reaction to Nerve
Jam, but reasons would do little to soothe the poor bastards. Other
pressing issues were a growing sense of tiredness, and an ocean of sweat
from a heat like no other. Christ, he had to get out of there before he
was cooked alive!

With the barest of movements he hurled himself off the bench and away
from the surgical instruments, kicking out at the wall with surprising
agility before landing nimbly on his feet.

*Fucking Cruezzir*, he thought to himself, but hyper--agility was
something he could happily live with, provided he could get out of this
fucking oven. With that in mind he went to the door, and found it locked
as he had expected. There was no time for cunning plans with the growing
heat, however, and he braced himself with both feet planted on the floor
while he pushed against that door with all his might.

It burst apart with remarkable ease, twisting when it should have slid,
and sending shears of torn metal drifting through the air. The
electrical lock exploded, and sparks gouted weirdly through the air as
he passed through the doorway. Whatever cool change he had hoped for,
however, was nowhere to be found.

He followed the broken door into the room, drifting through the air and
glancing at his surroundings: the slow--moving forms of Keffa, Darragh,
Chir and Jen...

*Wrong*, he corrected himself. They weren't moving slowly, this was all
on him. But with shards of metal flying everywhere there wasn't one of
them who'd get out of this situation unharmed, not unless he prevented
it.

The tiredness was setting in harder now, his body so hot and parched he
was beginning to feel like leather, but he only needed to press past
that for a moment. He grabbed the door from the air, slammed a foot
against the floor, and struck it against the field of debris before it
got away; nobody would be getting impaled today.

That was all the strength he had, and now the darkness came to claim
him. He heard the beat of his heart like a constant roar in his ears,
the sensation of the floor as it came up to meet him, and the explosion
of metal debris as it blasted into the hallway. *Super--speed*, he
thought, lingering at the edge of unconsciousness, *with all of the
drawbacks.*


