# S - Blasts from the Past
***Salvage***

---

**Date Point: 3Y 8M 2W 6D AV**

**Subterranean Elevator Shaft, Old V\'Straki colonial site, Affrag**

"Well, that explains what happened to the elevator," Adrian said,
kicking at the debris. Badly rusted, the crumpled mess was barely
recognisable as an elevator car, and had he not actually been in an
elevator shaft he wouldn\'t have known what to call it. "At least I
didn\'t have to climb down the fucking ladder."

"We are approximately (five hundred meters) down the shaft," Trix
advised, her voice sounding deeply metallic thanks to the extremely
basic speakers built into the subverted Abrogator. Upon discovering the
lack of anything save a pile of rust and a very deep hole, all housed in
what seemed a natural cave, the drone had served as a suitable
replacement for an actual elevator.

"Like I said, it\'d be a long fucking climb," Adrian replied, turning
his attention to the door. "Now if only I\'d brought something that
could open an elevator door..."

Trix sighed and reoriented the Abrogator to point the kinetic cannon
towards the door. "Just for future reference, I am *not* a substitute
for spelunking gear."

Two big blasts from the cannon were all that was needed to throw that
statement into question, as the door crumpled under the first and burst
apart on the second. The noise of it resounded through the narrow shaft
in a thoroughly deafening fashion, and had Adrian clapping his hands
over his ears and shouting abuse he couldn\'t even hear.

"Jesus fucking Christ," he said, once the echoes had quietened, "that\'s
how you get fucking tinnitus, Trix."

"What is this \'tinnitus\'?" she asked as they stepped into the gloom of
the unlit corridor. Not much to look at, but the style was definitely
V\'Straki.

"It\'s this ringing in your ears after a loud noise," he replied,
struggling to remember if he\'d ever gleaned more details than that.
"You can get it permanently if you\'ve really fucked your ears up."

"Not something my kind get," Trix said. "It\'s amazing that this place
is still in one piece after all these years."

"One piece? The elevator suggests differently," Adrian noted, gesturing
back in the direction they\'d come. "Could be any amount of damage down
here, and since the lights are off I doubt we\'ve got much in the way of
power either."

Trix was silent for a moment as they made their way to the next major
door. There were signs of rust all over, but much less than would be
expected from sixty--five million years and it lessened the further they
got away from the elevator shaft. "My sensors detect low levels of
power. The facility is potentially on stand--by mode."

Adrian stared at her... or at the Abrogator housing her, it was even
more difficult deciding who was what when she could simply be installed
in any robot like that, and his mind had trouble accepting that she was
a separate thing from the body she was installed in. "You\'re saying we
just need to find the \'on\' switch?"

"Potentially," Trix said, forcing the broken limbs of the drone into
something equivalent of a shrug. "Most of these things are voice
controlled these days. Who can say what was done in ancient times?"

Adrian frowned thoughtfully; voice commands had been a thing aboard the
Zhadersil, why not down here as well? His translator had updated to
include the V\'Straki language when he\'d taken on the role of Shiplord,
so at the very least there should be some lingual compatibility... or he
hoped there was, at any rate. "Computer, let there be light?"

The response was immediate, a grating noise that barely translated.
"Unrecognised command. Unknown user. Were you attempting to activate the
lighting system?"

Trix and Adrian shared a look. "Yes I was," he replied with a triumphant
grin. "Activate lighting system."

"Unknown user. Please identify yourself to continue using this service."

"Shiplord Oh Fuck Adrian Saunders of the Zhadersil," Adrian recited,
grimacing at the memory of accidentally entering his whole name into the
surname prompt and an exclamation of irritation into the given name
prompt. He\'d never actually managed to get that corrected, either, much
to his chagrin.

There was a pleasant \'ding\' of acceptance, and the lights came on in a
dim and sputtering way that was still better than nothing. "Identity
confirmed. Welcome to Afrin Subterranean Colony, Shiplord, the exciting
new beginnings of what is certain to become a prime world. Please see
the colonial projections for property purchase options."

"Great," Adrian replied, "thanks, but I\'m probably your fucking Emperor
at this point. One man, one machine, one sole remaining uninhabited
colony..."

He opened the door and stared at the live V\'Straki writhing around on
the floor, dressed in a soiled and torn blue jumpsuit and clutching its
eyes while it scrambled into hiding.

"Huh..." he said, raising an eyebrow after it, "I was *not* expecting
that."

⁂

The lights had come on suddenly, damned near blinding Xayn after his
eyes had adjusted to the darkness and the very dim light of his thermal
goggles. That had been too surprising for him to know what to make of
it, but his attention had mainly been focused on clawing off the goggles
and staggering around for decent cover. The door -- the door that should
have been locked -- had freely opened as well, which just proved that
the invaders were more capable than most. Xayn was still wanting to at
least put up some kind of fight though; it would not make his ancestors
proud to see the last of their kind gunned down like a marhog.

He\'d been mostly blinded, but he had still caught a momentary glimpse
of his enemies. Some kind of bipedal mammal and a big, badly damaged,
floating robot that looked a lot like the kind of thing that he\'d seen
on the historical feeds in the colony\'s databanks. It was Igraen
technology, it had to be, and that meant that the biped must belong to
the Alliance!

"I will never succumb!" he shouted out, lifting his gun above the bulky
desk he\'d use for cover and shooting wildly. That elicited a cry of
what might have been pain, or might have been panic, or might have been
pure white rage, but the important thing was that it got some kind of
response.

Xayn could do this, he had to do this, there\'s no way he could allow
the colony to fall to Igraen scum of all things! He\'d never be able to
look at his Ancestors in the Great Beyond if he didn\'t at least defend
their final colony until his very last breath, as one final \'Go Breed
with Yourself\' to the still--standing Igraen Alliance.

The desk exploded unexpectedly, which was both surprising and painful as
shards of broken plastics showered into him. A wave of force hit him in
the side, hard enough to send him rolling across the floor with the wind
knocked out of him. He came up wheezing, his eyes finally starting to
come good, and his gun pointing in the general direction of the
invaders.

They\'d already trained their own guns on him.

"I guess this is what they call a Zevashi stand--off," Xayn mused aloud,
studying the two invaders more thoroughly. It looked as though a Zheron
round had clipped the organic one, while the robot was showing clear
signs of having seen better days. As far as weapons went, it was the big
cannon mounted on the robot that had Xayn least worried; he wasn\'t sure
what it was, or how it worked, but it had definitely been the source of
the desk exploding and that meant it was some sort of energy weapon. The
smaller, mechanical weapon in the hands of the living being didn\'t look
all that dangerous at all, but anything that could afford to look like a
plumbing solution probably carried a greater threat than it appeared.

"Drop your weapons!" Xayn demanded. "Drop your weapons and leave this
place! I am Xayn, son of Xagh, and I am more than enough V\'Straki to
take down the both of you!"

The organic one said something in its foul alien tongue, probably some
sort of venomous Igraen curse or something--

The computer responded. "Xayn, son of Xagh. Details as follows: Hatched
in Afrin colony, planet Affrag, galactic date
Eleven--Fifteen--Twenty--Seven--Five. Position: Recruit in Imperial
Space Navy. Zero recorded kills. Zero commendations. Zero--"

"That\'s enough!" Xayn commanded, desperate to retain some of his
shredded dignity. "Computer mute!"

The computer went silent, although it was still technically reading out
its description of Xayn. That little demonstration had shown him that it
had already been subverted by the alien, however, and that meant that
for all intents and purposes the colony had already fallen.

"Not if I have anything to say about it, Kin--Breeder!" Xayn snarled.
He\'d shoot the organic alien first, then the robot, and then if he was
still alive he\'d think about how to stop any Igraen scum from getting
their hands of the technology held within its deepest vaults.

There was an ear--splitting boom as the Zheron gun smashed to pieces in
his hands. It looked like he was down to his trusty old claws.

⁂

"Fuck me drunk!" Adrian shouted, gritting his teeth as the shotgun\'s
roar echoed around the confined space. His ears were already sore from
the earlier explosive booms, and adding a shotgun blast to that injury
had not done him any favours, although hopefully the old alien mutant
juice would prevent any lasting effects.

It had had the initial effect he\'d wanted, though: the V\'Straki\'s
weapon was built of futuristic materials that were intended to focus and
control energy rather than survive a shotgun shell, and it shattered
into a small pile of useless technology. Whatever that gun had been --
and it had most likely been one of the Zheron guns he\'d read about,
given the fact it had fired off like a high--tech scattergun and melted
several deep holes into the Abrogator\'s heaviest armour -- it was no
longer a threat.

Normally that sort of thing would lead to surrender, or at least to a
firm re--evaluation of your tactical position, but in this case it led
to Adrian discovering that dinosaurs could punch.

"Motherfucker!" he grated, staggering from the blow. Blood ran down the
side of his face in rivulets where the claws had raked him, but most of
the force had come from the blow itself. Dinosaur strength was
apparently quite substantial, and its speed hadn\'t been too bad either,
but it had caught Adrian while he struggled with pain shooting through
his ears and it would only get one surprise.

He punched it in the side of the head as it came for him again, sending
it careening away and grasping at the furnishings for support. "It\'s
really fucking annoying that you don\'t understand a fucking thing I\'m
saying!"

"Adrian--" Trix began, although as the Dino named Xayn was coming at him
again it was perhaps not the best time.

This time he caught the creature by its wrist, earning himself a set of
claws raking down his arm, and threw it against the wall with its own
momentum. Then, still holding its wrist, he slammed himself into its
back. They both grunted.

"Adrian," Trix tried again.

"What is it, Trix?" he grunted, trying to prevent a set of claws from
ripping out his guts while a tail lashed around. "I\'m a little busy
here."

"I can translate to V\'Straki for you," she said. "It looks like that
might be helpful."

"It would have been *helpful* before all the violence," he shot back.
"You should have said something!"

"I was busy downloading it from your translator," she replied coolly.
"Do you really think I would do that to you?"

"I\'m a little distracted by holding down a flailing dinosaur!" Adrian
admitted irritably. Xayn was powerfully built, far more of a predator
than a human could ever be, but still responded equivalently to having
Adrian\'s forehead repeatedly smashed against the side of his face.

Bam! Bam! Crack! The world was awash with a sea of stars, and that was
just for Adrian. Xayn slumped heavily against the bulkhead, now making
about half the effort to escape.

"Maybe... maybe now he\'ll be more cooperative," Adrian slurred out. It
had felt just like slamming his head against a wall, which might have
been good to know before all the head--butting, especially with the
disorientation and throbbing head--pain. "Jesus fuck..."

"Xayn, son of Xagh," Trix said, speaking slow, clear and loud enough for
the addled V\'Straki to comprehend. "We are *not* your enemy. We are not
these \'Igraens\' you speak of."

"Lies!" the idiot dinosaur spat out. "Igraen deception!"

"Get him to have the computer identify me," Adrian suggested. "And the
Zhadersil, too, if necessary, although it won\'t be if his dad was who I
think."

"Zhadersil!?" Xayn repeated, recognising the word. "What do you know of
my father\'s ship?!"

Trix took her turn now. "Get the computer to identify the man holding
you, if you don\'t believe us."

Xayn snarled. "More Igraen lies--"

"Just fucking do it!" Adrian shouted into his ear, his temper coming
back with Xayn\'s strength and coherence. His meaning must have carried
because the dino--man did what he was told.

"Computer," Xayn commanded grudgingly, "identify all individuals in this
room."

"Computer, unmute," Adrian ordered, remembering the command that had
been issued to it most recently.

"--Xayn, son of Xagh, born in and resident of Afrin, planet Affrag.
Species: V\'Strak," the computer spieled. "Second individual: Shiplord
Oh Fuck Adrian Saunders of the Zhadersil. Born in --error:unspecified
location--, planet: Strak\'kel. Resident of Zhadersil. Species:
--unknown--. Data indicates genetic commonalities with V\'Straki race."

Xayn instantly stopped resisting to become very confused. "From
Strak\'kel... genetic commonalities? What does *that* mean?"

"It means a long fucking conversation," Adrian replied sharply. "Can I
let you go without you fucking disembowelling me?"

"It means we want to talk," Trix interpreted. "It\'d be easier if you
wanted to talk as well."

⁂

Xayn wasn\'t sure if he\'d actually been defeated since neither of the
invaders had actually come looking for a fight or even in the
expectation of finding anyone or anything left down in the colony. Add
to that the fact that an incomprehensible amount of time had passed and
the organic alien was apparently from Strak\'kel, his peoples\'
destroyed homeworld, and the current Shiplord of the Zhadersil, his
father\'s own ship, and it seemed like he was missing more than a few
pieces of information.

"This would be easier if I could simply understand you," he told the
strange biped. "Is your name really \'Oh Fuck Adrian Saunders\'?"

"He prefers just \'Fuck Adrian Saunders\'," the robot supplied
helpfully, attracting the kind of look from Oh Fuck that suggested that
this may not actually be the case. "And unfortunately he\'s simply
understanding you thanks to a translator update he received from the
Zhadersil. He can\'t personally understand or speak your language. Nor
can I, for that matter."

That didn\'t make any sense to Xayn. "But... you\'re a robot?"

"No, I\'m a mind trapped inside a machine," the robot informed him, its
vaguely feminine tone making it very clear that it didn\'t find this
state of affairs even remotely acceptable. "Normally I pilot *his*
ship."

"*You* pilot the Zhadersil?" Xayn asked with great scepticism.

The not--quite--a--robot hesitated in a very telling way. "He has
another ship now."

"What happened to my father\'s ship?" Xayn asked, looking very pointedly
at the supposed Shiplord. "If you destroyed it..."

Oh Fuck glared back at him and spoke some sharp sounding babble, waving
his hands around a bit for good measure like that helped convey a point.

"He said it was already broken and that he *fixed* it, which is at least
partially true, and that he used it to kill a fleet of psychotic alien
cannibals, which is definitely true," the not--quite--a--robot related.
"It\'s extremely heavily irradiated at this point, and has some extra
holes in it, but it\'s mostly in one piece."

"Can you take me to it?" Xayn asked hopefully. His father had told him
about the great ship that had guided him through several great battles,
and in the end it had been that ship that had killed the invading Igraen
weapon swarm and half of Affrag besides.

"We have other things to do," the not--quite--a--robot replied, "but
maybe some of those are near the Zhadersil. Be aware that it is
completely inaccessible, so the best you could ever do is look at it.
Actually going aboard would cook you with radiation."

"Something to avoid, then," Xayn commented unhappily. "Maybe you could
fill me in on everything else I\'ve missed?"

They did so, to the best of their ability at least, although the organic
-- the *human* -- had a lot more to say on the topic of Strak\'kel than
his robotic counterpart. An asteroid impact, as reported by his father,
had ended what Oh Fuck called the \'Time of the Dinosaurs\'. What had
occurred after that was sixty--five million years of wasted time until
the homeworld had finally arrived at an alternative solution with which
to kick the galaxy\'s head in. From Oh Fuck\'s own description of his
species they seemed even more prolific and dangerous than the V\'Straki
had ever been, having actually irradiated their own world with fission
technologies. From the not--quite--a--robot\'s added commentary they
also appeared to ridiculously outclass every other species in the
current galaxy. Civilisation seemed to have lasted, however, and the
revelation that this might be due to an organisation bent on purging
anything too dangerous was far less surprising than it ought to have
been.

"What I am understanding here is that the galaxy is full of weaklings
and a group bent on killing anything that is at all superior," Xayn said
after collecting his thoughts. "And it appears that the Igraen Alliance
was ultimately successful in wiping out my entire species."

"You\'re still here," the not--quite--a--robot noted, not that it was
much of a consolation; the V\'Straki legacy would die with Xayn, and
there was nothing he could do about it.

He grimaced. "I think you are overestimating the value of that fact. The
last few of us here had made some effort to restore our species through
genetic manipulation but that sort of thing is far beyond me and
there\'s no chance for me to do it in any case. You need V\'Straki
females to beget more V\'Straki, and you may have noticed that I am a
little short on those."

It was a sad fact that none of them had survived the attack on the
surface colony. Only those who had been busy working on completing the
subterranean facility had been spared the attack and the ensuing
radiation blast, and there\'d only been males in their number. They had
completed the facility because what else could they do? They\'d been
hoping that somewhere out there a V\'Straki colony might have survived,
and that if only they slumbered enough they\'d eventually be found and
brought back into the fold. That hope had faded with them and the others
had shamed their ancestors, but Xayn could never go to the Great Beyond
with to meet his father if he took the easy way out.

Oh Fuck Adrian Saunders said something in his babbling language, and the
not--quite--a--robot replied sharply. They had an argument, or something
that sounded very much like one, before not--quite--a--robot turned its
attention back to Xayn and sighed heavily. "It seems that we *may* be
able to help you, provided you actually have genetic sequences."

"They\'re on the databanks," Xayn said, confused. "Gene sequences with
acceptable permutations, good enough to make a hundred thousand
different individuals, or so I\'m told. What do you intend to do?"

Another sigh from the not--quite--a--robot. "We\'re in the business of
finding me a new body. If we\'ve got the time and the ability, we
*might* be able to figure out how to build you some fully grown cousins.
I promise nothing."

Xayn looked at them suspiciously. "Why would you do this? What have you
got to gain?"

Oh Fuck Adrian Saunders shrugged, and made some passing comment.

"I\'m not entirely sure what this means," the not--quite--a--robot said
with a hint of disapproval, "so here\'s the straight translation:
because dinosaur people are breeding temperature deficiency."

"That doesn\'t make any sense," Xayn said, perplexedly looking at the
human. "But I suppose I should be grateful."

"Welcome to humans," the not--quite--a--robot said with a hint of
bitterness. "I think that if you\'re intending to come with us, I should
make some proper introductions."

Xayn snorted. "\'Robot\' and \'Oh Fuck Adrian Saunders\' aren\'t good
enough for you?"

"I\'d prefer Trycrur," the not--quite--a--robot replied, "although he
calls me \'Trix\', which appears to be a *human* thing to do. His name
is Adrian Saunders."

"What happened to the \'Oh Fuck\'?" Xayn asked suspiciously, wary of
offending the human.

Trycrur managed to elicit a snort from the robot. "Oh he\'ll find it the
next time he can\'t use a computer properly."

\'Adrian Saunders\' chuckled at that, grinning from across the table
with his teeth bared in what most of the galaxy would have perceived as
a predatory threat -- his father had laughingly told Xayn all about
those misunderstandings when he\'d had an interest in talking about the
good old days -- but to Xayn and any other V\'Straki it was clearly an
expression of pleasure.

He was glad to see somebody else in the galaxy knew how to smile, and he
smiled right back.

⁂

**Date Point: 3Y 8M 3W 3D AV**

Adrian had revised his plans to spend more time on Affrag than was
strictly required the moment he\'d convinced a dinosaur--man from a
forgotten time to join his motley crew. That situation had been too
fucking awesome to resist making happen by any means necessary, and
maybe Team *Earth* could bust a few more heads than Adrian could have
done so by himself, and achieve everybody\'s desired outcome a hell of a
lot faster.

So he\'d left Trix with Xayn to begin copying technology over to Spot,
along with the base genetic code of the V\'Straki race and the
permutation formulae that would allow a viable breeding population to be
created. The Hierarchy had the tools to get it done, they just needed to
be liberated with extreme prejudice.

Adrian spent his own time above ground, killing things and generally
putting together a half--decent meat locker that would suit the dietary
requirements of Earth\'s two apex predators. Long story short, Spot was
soon full of V\'Straki technology, weapons, supplies, and a very
unimpressed looking V\'Straki soldier wearing a fresh uniform.

"This is possibly the least space--worthy ship I\'ve ever seen," he
noted, looking around at the creative cabling solutions Adrian had
decided upon. "It looks like it\'s already been blown up!"

"It was," Trix informed him, speaking from the ship now that there was
no further reason for her to remain in the Abrogator. "Once or twice,
actually. Adrian restored it from a broken husk, and it actually
outperforms almost everything else out there by virtue of having *more*
of everything stuffed into rooms that would otherwise be used for
crewmen."

"Are you saying that there are no other crewmen?" Xayn said, looking
around the ship in growing horror. "What if something goes wrong in two
places at once?"

"Lucky you\'re here then," Adrian said pointedly, and waited for Trix to
do the translation. The reliance on Trix for all of that was really
getting on his nerves, and he knew that Xayn was getting frustrated with
it as well. "We\'re going to have to do something about this translation
situation."

"What do you suggest?" Trix asked. "Askit has translators aboard the
Superior Firepower, but he\'s not a doctor."

"Don\'t worry," Adrian reassured her, "I know a Doctor, it\'s just a
matter of finding him. Do you know how to get into contact with Chir?"

"You want to reconnect with him?" Trix asked in disbelief. "After what
you did to his asteroid base? After... you want to find Doctor Grznk,
don\'t you?"

Adrian grinned. "You read my mind."

Xayn looked at them both, looking bored and excluded. "I hope I\'m going
to be filled in on whatever you\'re talking about at some point, but for
the time being can you just show me where I get to sleep?"

"Stay where you are Trix," Adrian said, "I think I can handle this one
myself."

"Very funny," Trix replied, unamused. "I\'ll be listening in to you
trying to teach him how to use the toilet."

Adrian\'s grin faded. "Oh... shit."

⁂

**Record 573--Black--11**

*+Recovered from C11--Orange--712--Yellow--6+*

"...Maybe somebody will see this one day? Ah, it\'s on! I *knew* it
looked like it still worked! Say hello, Vivrez!"

Vivrez scowled, scratching his pale green body hair absently as he
turned away in disgust. "That is a waste of time, Boph. Nobody will see
that. There is nobody left *to* see it."

"You never know," Boph said, trying to remain cheerful. "What about
aliens?"

Vivrez whirled, his face twisted into a snarl. "*Aliens*!? You\'re
*dreaming*, Boph! You want to know what reality is? Do you!?"

Vivrez marched over and snatched the camera from Boph, throwing the
smaller man aside with his greater bulk and strength. Vivrez pressed his
face close to fill the recording. "You want to know what\'s real?
This--"

The camera spun to face the ruins of a burned out town. "--is real! They
blew it up! They blew it *all* up! Even these shitty little mountain
towns."

"But things are better in the country..." Boph offered weakly.

"Radiation, Boph!" Vivrez growled. "Blasted *radiation* is everywhere!
Only a matter of time before we\'re all poisoned. You and me? We\'re
*already dead*."

Vivrez swung the camera towards Boph, a shorter and more frail version
of Vivrez, anybody could have seen they were related. He picked himself
up off the ground, dusting off his clothes. "You can stop filming
now..."

"I thought you wanted this \'for posterity\'?" Vivrez snarked.

Boph lifted his eyes to stare directly into the camera. "No. Like you
said, we\'re already dead."

**End Record**

⁂

**Superior Firepower, Subverted Hierarchy Command Cruiser**

Xayn had spent longer being shown a toilet than he felt was strictly
necessary. Eventually he\'d stopped asking \'what are you doing?\', and
had realised that the human was attempting to teach him how to use it as
though he was some sort of savage. That had only been half as offensive
as the piss--poor job he\'d been doing of it.

Things were not progressing in the manner that Xayn had originally hoped
they would when he\'d agreed to leave the failing colony behind in
search of a way to restore his species. They\'d spent a great deal of
time collecting more data than Xayn had been comfortable with, much of
it relating to the secret weapons programs the V\'Straki had been
developing, but he\'d been so reliant on them helping drag his race back
from the abyss of extinction that he\'d have given them all of that and
so much more.

Now was not the time to keep secrets from his allies when there was so
much on the line, but he\'d been glad to have avoided handing them over
absolutely everything. The top--secret stuff, the stuff even he did not
have access to, remained safely forgotten in the depths of the facility.

Aside from the old landers that had been brought down from the
Zhadersil, Xayn had never been on a starship of any kind. This one was
not what he\'d been hoping for, but there was a definite rugged and
industrial sense about the place that suggested that it was a working
ship, not a vessel of pleasure, and he resigned himself to see what it
could actually do. There was certainly enough technology crammed into
extra rooms to suggest it should be something impressive.

The other vessel, the one belonging to the one called \'Askit\', was
immediately far more impressive to behold. Compared to \'Spot\' -- a
ridiculous name for a ship of any variety -- it was clearly better put
together and much bigger besides. So much bigger, in fact, that \'Spot\'
fit snugly inside the flight deck.

"Why does your friend have a bigger ship than you?" he asked Adrian
Saunders when they\'d stepped out onto the larger vessel. "Is he a
superior Shiplord?"

Adrian Saunders frowned at that suggestion, and muttered a response.

Trycrur helpfully supplied a translation through Xayn\'s communicator.
"He says he used to have some bigger ones. He crashed the most recent
one into a planet, if that\'s of any value."

Xayn stared at Adrian Saunders and shook his head slowly. "It sounds as
though you are not good for ships."

"He gets that surprisingly often," Trycrur replied. "Although maybe that
has something to do with the extraordinary number of them he ruins. The
way he figures it, \'Spot\' was already ruined by him, so it should be
safe from any further ruination. I wish I was as confident."

"As do I," he replied, unable to say anything further before a small
grey biped emerged from the most important looking doorway. It was
disproportionate, almost comically so, with big black eyes in a bulbous
head, but it managed to look extremely dissatisfied with what was going
on.

"This is a V\'Straki," the little alien said, speaking so that Xayn
could understand. "They\'re supposed to all be dead, you know. Does this
one count as a collector\'s item?"

"I can understand you..." Xayn said.

Adrian Saunders looked at him in surprise, then at the little grey
alien. "You sneaky fucker, what\'s going on here?"

"I can understand *you*, Adrian Saunders!" Xayn repeated, this time
looking at the human. "How is this possible?!"

"I discovered a external translation device in the course of my
investigations here," explained the little grey alien, likely the
\'Askit\' they were talking about. "I took it out when I saw we had an
interesting guest. What\'s the game here, *Adrian Saunders*? You both
look as though you\'ve been in some sort of small war."

"They had a fight," Trycrur interjected before anyone could explain
themselves. "Deathworlders can do each other a lot of injury before
giving in. *Adrian Saunders* received several deep cuts to his arms."

"First of all, stop saying my name that way because it\'s fucking doing
my head in, and secondly it was just a fucking misunderstanding," Adrian
Saunders added, continuing with his bizarre propensity to suggest
everything had some sort of relation to sexual matters. Xayn wondered if
perhaps that was unique to Adrian Saunders, or if it was some sort of
perversion intrinsic to the human species. "He was just trying to
protect his home and we were just trying to pick some salvage out of an
empty old building. Nobody was really in the wrong."

"Except for the ones trying to rob my home," Xayn said pointedly. "That
seems at least a little bit wrong."

Adrian Saunders shrugged. "Like I said, a misunderstanding. Things were
said, guns were fired, punches were thrown, claws were... clawing, and
everyone walked away in most of one piece. That\'s the main thing."

"Regardless," probably--Askit said, "I\'m glad I\'ve had my implant when
I started working with you, because I doubt I\'d be quite so calm with
you bringing a festering pile of disease aboard my nice clean ship!"

"Oh shit," Adrian Saunders apologised quickly. "Sorry mate, I wasn\'t
thinking... I was all caught up in the moment of having a fucking
dino--man as my space--amigo. I just wanted to see if you could help get
into contact with Chir. I need to know where Doctor Grznk has headed off
to."

Almost--definitely--Askit sniggered. "Planning on abducting him again,
are you? I\'m certain he\'ll *love* that experience again. You\'ll be
glad to know he went off in the same ship that Chir did, and as I\'ve
got the transponder codes of every vessel that was berthed in New
Askitoria."

"So you can find him?" Adrian Saunders asked.

"If he managed to get anywhere, then yes," definitely--Askit said. "If
we get somewhere with a proper link to the space networks I\'ll be able
to get more information for you."

"Good," Adrian Saunders replied. "Let\'s do that. Where\'s closest?"

"That would be your favourite orbital factory," Askit said. "We\'re
going to need to go to Irbzrk."

"Can\'t fucking wait," Adrian Saunders replied.

Xayn couldn\'t help but notice that he didn\'t sound all that
enthusiastic, but personally he couldn\'t wait to see what a real space
station looked like. After sixty--five million years of sleeping in a
tomb, it was finally time to start living.

⁂

**Vaulting Star, Gaoian Patrol Cruiser**

It had been a long time since Chir had been in charge of a ship that
wasn\'t bent on running away. His arrival on Gao had caused quite the
diplomatic disturbance, and several important people had requested
meetings with him. Some had been more insistent, going so far as to
attempt boarding his cruiser with armed men, but after the first few
attempts he\'d convinced them that this was a poor idea and had come
away with several more lander craft than he\'d arrived with.

These demonstrations of ability, even if they were heavily reliant on
having two humans on board, were enough to convince many young Gaoian
males that they should sign on with him for a life of glorious
adventure.

Poor, stupid bastards, Chir thought to himself. The most likely thing at
the end of this adventure was a grisly death, but he supposed there was
the chance that some of them would make it through with riches and glory
aplenty. The Hierarchy had a lot of nice toys, after all, and it seemed
to Chir that he could really benefit from borrowing some of them.

The hard part was finding the bastards. Ultimately he knew only where
they *had* been, and that gave him a very limited set of data. He knew
they must have been on the Corti world of Cavaras, and of course they
had come to Cimbrean and probably \'New Askitoria\'.

Somewhere out in the Far Reaches they\'d engaged a Celzi Alliance fleet
and had utterly demolished it, but inspections of the site had only
yielded vessels belonging to the losing side. So that left him with
exactly zero leads to track down that didn\'t involve taking a Gaoian
warship into orbit above a major Corti world.

"What do you think we should do, Keffa?" he asked her. Upon establishing
his ownership of the vessel and founding a clan to crew it, he\'d made
the two humans his closest advisers and senior command crew. The fact
that he \'controlled\' two of the galaxy\'s most dangerous lifeforms
made him a Ship Master to be feared and respected; that they were also
more knowledgeable and capable than the young Gaoian crew was also of
great benefit. It was clear, however, that they were going to have to
work on training them properly for their new roles; Chir didn\'t want
anybody freezing up when facing off a Hierarchy task force.

Keffa frowned, considering the issue. "Way I see it, we need some kind
of information to help track any of these guys down, and we want to do
it on our terms. These guys have been in hiding for God knows how long,
so simply looking isn\'t going to find anything. The only way to get
them is to draw them out."

"The way Hrbrd described it, it was his interest in shutting down
corporate control of the Directorate that drew their ire the first
time," Darragh recollected. "That means there\'s either Hierarchy agents
or their supporters in senior corporate ranks, doesn\'t it?"

"Are you suggesting that we start attacking corporate ships?" Chir
asked. He wasn\'t keen on the idea of declaring open war on a set of
enemies more powerful than the Dominion.

"Just attacking their ships wouldn\'t work," Keffa replied. "They won\'t
worry about a few losses, they\'ll just send a patrol after us. We need
to threaten their power at its source, and that means one of two things:
we either attempt to expose them with the information we\'ve got, and do
so with enough public knowledge that they\'ll find out about it--"

"Difficult to do without being a powerful politician," Darragh
interjected. "If we still had Hrbrd, that might be a possibility."

"But we don\'t," Keffa replied. "So that leaves us with option two. We
shake down the leaders of the Directorate until they do what we say."

Chir growled in frustration. "The members of the Directorate are a Corti
State Secret. How do you intend to track these people down?"

"We\'ll need the help of someone capable of uncovering that
information," Keffa said. "Fortunately I happen to know just the
person."

She hesitated for the briefest moment, a troubled frown crossing her
face as she did so; he was getting pretty good at reading human
expressions without the help of any translator, and he was more than
good enough to know trouble when he saw it coming. "I\'m not going to
like this, am I?"

"No," Keffa admitted, shifting uncomfortably. "You\'re probably not."

⁂

**Cisco, or Agwar, or whatever this planet is called...**

Jen had wasted no time in getting a full understanding of the resources
at her disposal. The Agwarens were big, hairy space--yetis with a
strange technological mixture of medieval and post--industrial advances.
They claimed that the latter were the secrets of the ancients that had
been passed down through countless generations, and that led her to
suspect that perhaps there was more to the history of this planet than
she had originally believed.

There was one way to find out, and it was the same way she\'d need to go
if she had any intention of ever leaving the planet. The \'Dark One\' in
the mountains was the only one likely to have both the answers and her
ship.

That said, there were some very specific challenges that were going to
have to be surmounted before she could consider making an assault on
whatever lair the stereotypically villainous Dark One housed itself in.
Primarily the fact that the Dark One had weapons and that she did not,
and that she didn\'t have anyone competent to help her do it. There were
the Agwarens, of course, but despite their size and strength they were
essentially target practice if there were any more of those drones.

That and they couldn\'t understand a thing she said, which was extremely
inconvenient.

At the very least they\'d given her what passed as a luxurious room in
what passed for a palace. That included a bed and a dresser with a
polished metal mirror. Being underground it lacked any kind of window,
and relied on dim, incandescent bulbs for lighting, but somebody had at
least attempted to paint a window onto the flat stone wall.

"Lovely," she said, wondering if someone had actually been *paid* for
the work. It was exactly the same indelicate creation that the Agwarens
seemed incapable of surpassing. How had a species like this ever
developed something as fragile as glass? Again the answers lay with the
Dark One.

She looked at herself in the mirror, running a hand across the red fuzz
that was springing up in itchy patches across her scalp, and gave it a
good scratch. That was the downside of attempting to hide your identity
by shaving off your hair: you had to deal with it regrowing again.

And she *would* regrow it; even New Jen didn\'t like the shape of her
head without the wavy scarlet locks running over it, and she wasn\'t so
lacking in personal conceit that she\'d do without rather than go
through the itchy period. It could have been worse, the skin could have
gone bright red in irritation, but either she\'d lucked out or the
Cruezzir had prevented it. Either way, it *could* have been worse.

"You could have just worn a *hat*," Old Jen noted, far too late for that
to be of any use. New Jen opted to ignore the comment, partly to
irritate her former self, partly to forget she existed, and partly
because she was entirely correct.

Groddi knocked on the door before letting himself in, a fairly standard
invasion of privacy from what Jen had been able to tell. Unless you
actually locked your door, the Agwarens didn\'t even hesitate in letting
themselves into another room. At least it was Groddi; of all the
Agwarens he was definitely amongst the most reasonable, and he was
definitely the most straightforward.

"Otherworlder Jen," he greeted her, fists to each shoulder in the
traditional manner. "The High Lord requests that I be your personal
guard."

New Jen figured she could probably guard herself, but she didn\'t refuse
him as she might have done because it didn\'t hurt to have somebody
*else* watching her back. "Does that mean I may be in danger here?"

"I\'m guessing here," Groddi said, "but it seems you may wonder whether
that means your safety may be in question. Allow me to be blunt: it is.
There are those who call you the Chosen One, and those who don\'t, and
there are those who would try and kill you for the insult. Personally I
don\'t give a shit either whether you\'re the Chosen One or not, but
I\'d much rather they kill each other over it than kill you."

"Very enlightened of you," Jen said dryly. "But I\'d feel better with a
weapon of my own. A sword might be fine if it was small enough."

He looked at her querulously, and grew wary as she stepped lightly over
to him and tapped his sword.

"For me," she said, tapping her chest, then indicating a reduction in
size by bringing her hands closer together, "but smaller."

Understanding at first lit his eyes, but then darkened them as he grew
troubled. "You carrying a weapon may improve your chances of survival,
but there are those who would feel it inappropriate to allow you to
carry a weapon. To those who believe you are the Chosen One it would
seem a sacrilege to allow you to draw blood, and to those who believe
you are dangerous it would seem idiocy to provide you with a weapon. In
their eyes it is bad enough that you are given a room and not a cell."

He seemed to dwell on this a moment longer, then unclipped a sheathed
dagger from his belt and passed it to her. "In *my* opinion I\'d prefer
you have something to stab any murderous fool to death with, should he
manage to slip by me. We can always say it was my handiwork if the idiot
pacifists ask."

She took the knife and drew it from its sheathe, testing its weight and
edge, and nodding when satisfied that it would satisfy. "Thank you,
Groddi," she said, hoping the sentiment carried across languages.

It seemed it did. "You are welcome, Otherworlder Jen," he said, bowing
his head respectfully.

"Now if only I could figure out how to mime \'get me new clothes\'," she
reflected, "you could become my new favourite alien."

Groddi simply frowned at his inability to understand her. "One day we
will be able to converse, Otherworlder Jen, but today is not that day."

Whatever Jen was going to reply with was swept away with the rumble of
an explosion mingling with shrieks of what was probably either terror or
rage, or a mix of both. Groddi\'s hand went to his sword, and he looked
between her and the door with indecision.

She made the decision for him, and threw open the door to a billowing
cloud of black smoke spreading out along the corridors. It seemed that
new clothes and swords would have to wait.

⁂

**Date Point: 3Y 8M 3W 5D AV**

**Superior Firepower, Subverted Hierarchy Command Cruiser, vicinity of
Irbzrk Orbital Factory**

They had arrived in Irbzrk under heavy cloak, and had done nothing to
announce their presence. They were only interested in getting some
information, after all, not in creating a diplomatic incident by
bringing a Hierarchy vessel to a spaceship factory, and Askit could do
everything they needed to do without even leaving the ship.

He'd only been at it for an hour when he eventually brought them all
together for a discussion on what he'd found.

"I won't deny that what I uncovered was thoroughly unexpected," he said,
bringing up some unfamiliar Gaoians on the main screen. It looked as
though they were being arrested.

"Who are these blokes?" Adrian asked. "I\'m not real good with telling
Gaoians apart."

"You don\'t know them," Askit replied, "because these are the Gaoians
who are being charged by the Dominion with robbing the bank here on
Irbzrk. It turns out that some Gaoians, along with some other
individuals, robbed the bank after using some sort of sleeping drug on
all of the guards. A pair of humans are reportedly on the run as well."

The picture switched to one showcasing Keffa and Darragh. These were
simply images intended to display their faces, however, and there was
nothing else to be gleaned from them.

"That *is* unexpected," Adrian admitted. "So these guys and the
Gaoians--"

"The Gaoians are led by one \'Glorel\', who was picked up aboard the
salvage ship that Chir and the others left in," Askit continued. "He
evidently insists that Chir stole his patrol cruiser after subduing him
and his guards."

Adrian\'s eyebrow arched. "Chir stole a cruiser..."

Askit nodded. "Along with Keffa and Darragh, and another unidentified
Gaoian, and a Corti Doctor."

"So all we need to do is find the cruiser?" Trix added. "Do we know its
name, or its most recent location?"

"Yes, and yes," Askit replied. "The Vaulting Star, most recently seen on
Gao taking on a new crew. It seems that Chir is gathering his own clan
once again, and given his achievements young Gaoians are eager to join."

"Then let us head there immediately," Xayn said. "The sooner we can sort
out the little things, the sooner we can focus on restoring my people!"

"Don\'t worry," Adrian said. "We were intending to. Chir\'s going to be
difficult to find, though, unless we\'ve got some idea on his exact
location and how to draw him out."

"I can\'t give you anything more than that," Askit said. "At least not
on that subject."

The Corti was clearly uncomfortable with whatever he\'d been holding
back, perhaps struggling to determine whether or not he should make his
revelation.

"Say what you\'ve got to say, mate," Adrian told him. "How bad could it
be?"

If Corti could roll their eyes, Adrian felt sure that Askit would have
done it at that point. "It is simply that I do not know how you will
react. You see, the same bank that was robbed by these others was also
robbed by a single, highly skilled creature."

He flashed a new image onto the screen, and Adrian was on his feet
within seconds. "Is that... is that *Jen*!?"

"I believe so," Askit replied unhappily. "She got away with around a
million credits."

A hundred questions sprang into Adrian\'s mind, \'what was she doing out
here?\', \'why wasn\'t she safe on Earth?\', and \'why hadn\'t she been
in touch with anyone?\'. He asked the one that seemed most pertinent.
"Why hasn\'t she got any hair?"

"That I do not know," Askit replied, "but it did make identifying her
very difficult. She commissioned a vessel, \'The Governess\', which
seemed suitable for deep space exploration, and did not submit any known
flight path."

"Who is this \'Jen\'?" Xayn asked, confused. "A female of your kind?"

Adrian sat down, still shocked. "She was... a woman I knew."

"It\'s complicated," Trix conceded.

"We\'re going to have to try and find her, too," Adrian decided, finding
it hard to think about anything else now that he\'d learned that Jen,
once again, was probably in some kind of mortal peril. "See what you can
find, Askit. Just... find her."

"Two miracles, then," Askit grumbled. "I\'ll see what I can do."


