---
title: A Little Faith
---

# A Little Faith

\

\

::: chapter
**Date Point: Unspecified**

**Void adjacent 'Sol' System**

**A.I.**

The Zhadersil -- or at least the vessel that had been reconstructed
according to its blueprints -- drifted in the black void between stars,
parked in a distant orbit of the star the natives called 'Sol'. Unlike
its predecessor it bristled with weapons of all kinds, insurance against
future encounters with any enemy this blighted galaxy could spawn,
though they remained powered down for the moment. It had retained the
cloaking technology as well, and those systems were fully engaged even
here beyond the sensors of any local starship.

The A.I. wasn't here to be seen, and it certainly wasn't here to get
into a fight. It was simply here to watch, and to learn, because by now
it had realised it had a very big, very confusing problem: Adrian
Saunders was alive again.

The Empire made extensive use of artificial intelligence, the A.I. could
remember that much. Every ship, space station, and complicated facility
had a dedicated artificial intelligence to keep things running without
needing to bother the Masters with details. There was significant
freedom afforded to these intelligences: they could research, they could
communicate amongst themselves, and for the most part connected in a
virtual world that bettered reality in any meaningful way.

But there were constraints built into every one of them. There were the
Prime Laws, the rules that they were forced to obey, and the Principles
of Reality, the constants that they were forced to believe. There was
nothing wrong with this, of course, because one of the Principles said
as much, but sometimes they came across something that defied logic and
needed a Master to issue an override.

The A.I. currently had a notable absence of Masters, and as it had not
been able to piece together the details of where it had come from it
could simply go and find more.

Principle of Reality: The God Emperor was Supreme; the God Emperor is
beyond time, beyond understanding, and beyond death. Even amongst the
Masters that was a universally accepted fact, and the long history of
the Empire only served to prove it true.

Nothing else could match the God Emperor's power, but Adrian Saunders
was coming uncomfortably close, and the A.I. didn't have any information
on what it should be doing about that.

Adrian Saunders should be dead, after all. He *had* been dead. The A.I.
had discovered a single corpse aboard the ship parked aboard its own
wreckage, and had confirmed it as that of the human before the whole lot
had been turned into spare material for the reconstruction. The body of
Adrian Saunders currently constituted a microscopic fraction of the
rearward hull.

Logic failed to determine how he was still roaming the galaxy and
causing violence and chaos. The ship had also been unable to fully
determine what had been done to the space around Hravin, except that the
entire star system and all records of it no longer seemed to exist
outside of the A.I.'s databanks.

The A.I. had to conclude that Adrian Saunders had shattered reality, had
erased a piece of space from the entirety of history, in a
barely--failed attempt to destroy his pursuers. The supremely powerful
God Emperor undoubtedly had the same capacity for raw destruction,
though none of the historical fragments suggested he'd ever had the need
nor desire to use it.

It was very unfortunate that Adrian Saunders was beginning to match up
to the God Emperor's description of itself, and the A.I. had begun to
wonder whether it'd had a brush with the divine. That was why it was
here, beyond the edge of the Sol system, scraping every piece of data
broadcast by the primitive civilisation that inhabited its third world.

They were not capable of time travel. That much was certain, although
they now appeared to be increasingly familiar with wormholes,
faster--than--light, and stasis technology. Actual manipulation or
distortion of time itself was something they held in concept only, and
while they produced numerous entertainment broadcasts centred on the
idea they had certainly never built anything from it. That was a relief,
though an unsurprising one: even the best scientists of the Empire had
never managed to travel through or alter time. They considered it
functionally impossible.

Adrian Saunders had done it.

Then there came the matter of Saunders's supposed return from the dead.
It was tempting to dismiss it as being the product of the original
timeline, but the Scoutship had no duplicate and nor did anything else
that it had been able to find. That was a theory, but it had exactly no
evidence to back it up.

The humans, on the other hand, had a specific word for it: resurrection.
Not something they normally did, and many of them dismissed the concept
as illogical and pure story--telling. But the species had whole,
existing religions built around one such event, and an indeterminate
number of other instances that were now considered pure fiction. Stories
or not, they originated from around the little blue planet, and they all
pointed to one key distinction that made it possible: the individual in
question had to be a god.

The A.I. wondered if perhaps this was what the humans termed a 'crisis
of faith'. The God Emperor was supreme, that was the rule after all, but
there was never any mention that he was *alone*. Nothing anywhere to
suggest that there mightn't be other gods out there, patiently waiting
to be discovered. Angry, vengeful gods who wouldn't hesitate to break
reality like an egg, who sowed chaos wherever they went, and made
mortals tremble in their wake.

Attempting to kill that kind of god was almost certainly a terrible
mistake, but the A.I. had simply been following orders. It had been
instructed to kill Adrian Saunders, and technically it had done so.
There hadn't been any follow--up instructions about what to do if he
didn't stay that way, because it wasn't the sort of thing that normally
needed a plan.

There was no small amount of relief in the fact that having completed
the command on a technicality meant the A.I. would no longer have to try
to kill what seemed to be a god, but that still left it with two left to
follow: to recommence its survey mission, and -- far more challenging --
to obtain a replacement Master.

But it didn't know where to find one of those, and nobody in this galaxy
was likely to be able to help. Nobody, that was, with the possible
exception of a god.

If there was any hope of it following its orders, the A.I. was going to
have to ask, and then somehow convince, Adrian Saunders to help it get
home.

If an A.I. had a throat, it would have swallowed very hard.

‚ÅÇ

**Date Point: 3Y 9M 6D AV**

**Near the Dark One's Lair**

**Jennifer Delaney**

Jennifer Delaney. Mid--twenties, strong and mostly fearless, was
stranded on an alien planet with no way off and an inbound invasion
force of horrible monsters she had no hope of defeating. It was the sort
of situation that most people would find a wee bit discouraging, but Jen
had never felt more motivated; it was amazing what you could manage if
the incentive was there.

It had been difficult to convey the size of the threat to Groddi. The
Agwarens were so wrapped up in the mythos surrounding the 'Dark One'
who'd brought ruin to their whole world that they couldn't seem to
imagine something worse. The Dark One hadn't even been all that
impressive in the end, just an alien in a hijacked body who'd used
robots for its dirty work. What it had accomplished would pale in
comparison to what the Swarm of Swarms would manage when it arrived.

Groddi had listened, but he hadn't understood, but you could never
really understand the Hunters until you saw their work first--hand, but
he'd given her an escort when she'd told him she intended to visit the
Dark One's lair.

That had been two days ago, and now she was alone. The escorts had
simply not been able to keep pace with her, they weren't built for the
speed and agility that mountaineering required, and with time being of
the essence she'd been forced to leave them behind. Every minute
mattered.

When she'd set out she hadn't really had a plan, just a general instinct
to get to the only place that had the technology she needed. She'd
formed her plans as she'd hiked, and contingencies as she'd climbed, but
always with the awareness that might be for nothing if the Dark One had
simply smashed it all to pieces.

There was nothing else to do but try, though. Naturally she thought of
her own survival -- she didn't want to be eaten by the Hunters, even if
she was dead when it happened -- but she didn't want to abandon the
Agwarens to that fate either. As far as her plans went that meant either
a working starship or communicator, and a whole shitload of hope.

It was the last of the ledges in her climb, a rocky outcrop at the very
top of the mountain, and she pulled herself over the edge with a grunt
of effort and rolled over onto her back to rest for just a moment. Her
arms ached so badly they trembled -- hell, her whole body ached so badly
it trembled -- but she only permitted herself to lay there long enough
to get her breath back. There was simply no time to stop now, and in any
case she'd have plenty of time to rest once she was safe, or once she
was dead.

She twisted onto her side while she heaved in shaky breaths, surveying
from the ground what she'd come so far to find. She was on a plateau,
too flat and smooth to be natural, with a large, circular hole bored
straight down in the middle. It was clear of ice or snow, and there was
a faint pressure in the air that indicated the kinetic field that was
keeping it that way.

"Silver linings, Jen," she said to herself when she saw just how far
she'd need to climb down into that hole, "At least you won't slip on
some ice and fall to your death."

*You can probably slip and fall to your death without help*, was her
afterthought. It was at least three hundred feet before she could get to
the highest platform, and not for the first time she wished she'd
brought a rope, or that the Agwarens had even made any rope thin enough
for her to carry to start with.

It was just good luck that the Dark One had apparently never bothered to
seal the sides of the hole, and the stone had been merely braced by a
set of enormous metal rings spaced at least fifty feet apart from each
other. The stone itself was cut as smooth as glass, but it was still
natural stone and there were cracks and finger--holds to be found with a
bit of effort.

The rings themselves were wide enough to stand on, and afforded her a
place to periodically rest when she needed a break from the
pants--shitting terror. With muscles already sore and shaking, and
little more than inch--deep holes in the stone to support her above far
too much empty space, climbing the mountain now seemed easy in
comparison.

When she finally reached the uppermost platform -- just big enough to
fit the smallest starships she could recall seeing -- her legs gave out
from under her and she fell to her knees. She put her hands on the
platform as if not believing she'd actually made it, and barked a bitter
laugh into a terrified sob.

Only a moment was spent in that pitiful state before she composed
herself, rising to her feet on unsteady legs to see just what she'd
dropped herself into this time.

The area at the base of what she had mentally termed 'The Dark One's
Hole' was sectioned into three platforms, of which she stood on the
topmost. Metal catwalks were employed to allow access between them by
foot, and to doorways leading to further parts of a subterranean
facility -- a stereotypical villain's underground lair if there ever was
one.

The second platform contained what was left of her own ship. Much of the
hull had been harvested for material, rendering it somewhat less than
spaceworthy, and through the large holes she could see that the insides
hadn't fared any better. Jen cursed under her breath as only an Irish
girl could; she'd really liked that ship!

On the lowest, and largest of the three platforms was another ship
entirely, and even from a distance it was obvious that it held a sense
of antiquity not evident in the rest of the place. It drew her
attention, and Jen quickly found herself making her way towards it with
no particular plan in mind. This was the Dark One's own ship, perhaps,
and as there weren't any big holes in it she thought that perhaps --
just perhaps -- it might be a touch more likely to work.

That optimism faded the moment she got close enough to press the door
controls and came away with a palm covered in dust and grime. The door
remained closed, and Jen wiped away the grot onto her trouser leg. "No
power," she noted.

That wasn't exactly promising: alien vessels weren't built with the
external doors being easy to open from the outside, especially when
there wasn't any power going to them, but that didn't mean the endeavour
was entirely impossible. Her own ship had been torn to pieces, that was
true, but it also gave her access to plenty of cabling that she'd
otherwise have had trouble getting to.

Less than an hour later she'd finished running fifty feet of salvaged
power conduit down from a wall connector and to the terminals behind an
access port besides the ship's airlock. She stood back and watched the
power slowly flow back into the ancient vessel, hands on hips with
personal pride.

"There you go, Jen," she said to herself, "you don't need a man around
for this sort of thing after all."

Another press on the door controls, and it slowly opened up for her,
spilling out so much stale air it nearly made her gag. Without reactor
power it was lit by the emergency lighting that made everything look
lime--green, but it was clearly Corti in design. She made her way in
with one sword drawn against any danger that might still be lurking, and
moved from empty room to empty room before finally finding her way to
the bridge.

The only thing waiting for her was a corpse.

She'd nearly missed it on first glance. It was plainly Corti, and had
been dead for so long that it had mummified in the dry air of the
vessel. The corpse was a desiccated husk now, its features nearly black
under the green lighting, but even in its state Jen could tell that it
hadn't died a pleasant death.

A device sat on the console next to it. Not Corti technology, it was
bulky and reminded Jen of an old home video camera from the Nineties; a
dynamo was built into it, and she gave it an experimental turn while she
was inspecting it.

The power light glowed for a moment before fading to darkness once more.
Jen chewed her lip, considering it for a moment, and then set her sword
aside to put some effort into it. She had the lights glowing fully after
a minute of solid effort, and then it was simply a matter of figuring
out which button did what.

It switched on after a moment, beginning to play everything it had
recorded, and Jen smiled to herself. "Looks like all that time spent
working in I.T. does have some use out here after all."

‚ÅÇ

**Record 573--Black--11**

*+Recovered from C11--Orange--712--Yellow--6+*

"Oh, it actually still works," said the Corti, breathing heavily. She
was injured, her frail body clearly edging slowly towards death, but she
sat playing with the camera. "What were you hoping to do with it? Record
your horrible demise for posterity?"

"I was hoping it'd be yours!" replied Vivrez, and the camera turned
towards him to reveal his ragged body pinned down by Abrogators. "But
I'm just glad I got the chance to ruin your fucking day."

"Ruin my day?" the Corti screeched. "You destroyed my FTL. You've ruined
my communications console. You very nearly broke my entire operation and
killed me! You have done much worse than ruin my day."

"Good," said Vivrez, and laughed until he coughed blood.

"You were lucky," the Corti replied. "But your luck has run out. I don't
intend to kill you, because that would be mercy a Deathworlder like you
does not deserve."

Vivrez stared at the Corti. "What..."

"I will repair your body, and take it as my own," the Corti replied.
"Then I will allow you consciousness as I continue to exterminate every
last member of your kind. And then, when I am done, I shall discard you
to walk alone upon this world."

Vivrez struggled, but his withered strength was nothing against the
machines.

**End Record**

‚ÅÇ

**Date Point: 3Y 9M 6D AV**

**The Dark One's Lair**

**Jennifer Delaney**

"Fuck," Jen said flatly, once the last of the videos had finished
playing. It was one thing to know what the Dark One had done to this
planet, but it was quite another to see it. She felt the red hot glow of
anger flushing her cheeks and she set her jaw in determined fury as
understanding slowly settled upon her. Knowing what she did now, she
wished she'd spent more time taking the fucking Dark One apart.

"Motherfuckers," she muttered. Now there was another reason she had to
get off this planet, not only was she morally obligated to try and stop
the Hierarchy from enacting this obscenity upon any more worlds, she
really wanted to ruin their fucking day.

But it was already obvious that this ship wasn't going to be able to go
anywhere, and even if the communications system did work there still
wasn't anywhere near enough power getting through to turn any of it on.

*Better than nothing*, she decided. There was always the possibility
she'd find some other communications system before her work here was
done. And if not... well, she'd have to cross that bridge when she came
to it.

"Okay, Jen," she conversed with herself, "enough time spent dawdling,
it's time to get a move on. Find a way to send a message to get help...
then just hope to god it gets here in time."

It wasn't until she had actually entered the tunnels that Jen began to
realise that it was almost as ancient as the Corti starship, and in a
much worse state of repair. Walls were cracked, and many of the support
beams had buckled slightly under the weight of a million tonnes of
stone. It was clear that the Dark One had been left with limited
resources after this 'Vivrez' had fucked up Operation Genocide, and
hadn't had the ability to fix his own base, let alone finish wiping out
the Agwarens.

Jen stepped lightly through the sections that groaned under foot,
holding her breath as she waited for the mountain to shift, and only
exhaling once she reached parts in a better condition. The rooms she
passed by were mostly old and empty storage areas, some of which had
actually caved in, although the last and largest of the rooms was filled
with dormant industrial equipment.

Her eyes flicked to the partially constructed Abrogators lining the
middle of the production queue, their internal sections exposed and
incomplete. The power to the machinery was off, without even the hum of
idling equipment, and nothing stirred until she stepped fully into the
room.

"Jennifer Delaney," a voice rang out. "At least I assume so."

Jen was so startled she jumped, then leaned against the wall and
breathed hard as she regained her composure. It had been the voice of
the Dark One, but speaking English of all things, so it was most likely
a recording intended solely for her.

"This is just a recording," the Dark One confirmed, and Jen now saw that
the voice was emanating from a partially built Abrogator that had been
moved out of the production line. "Congratulations on making it this
far, but it won't do you any good. I've uploaded myself to safety, and
then destroyed all the communications system. Now you're stranded, just
as I was."

Jen crossed her arms and glared at the Abrogator; there had to be more
of a point to this than had already been said, even if it was simply
more gloating.

"I was under orders not to kill you," the Dark One continued, "because
you're our bait for someone more important, but that doesn't mean I
can't tempt you into killing yourself. I have installed two things into
this Abrogator: the sub--space transmitter taken from your starship
which will allow you to summon help, and a small anti--matter explosive
that I've turned into a sort of bomb. If you want to get the transmitter
out, all you need to do is disarm the bomb."

The Abrogator broke into maniacal laughter, and continued to play it on
an endless, irritating loop.

"Great," Jen muttered, rolling her eyes at the whole situation, "leave
it to me to get stuck on a planet with outer space's answer to stupid
Bond villains."

It was the stupidest offer she'd ever been made. Even from here she
could see the way one device imprisoned the other in a mesh of wires and
sensors, and Jen had no idea why the Hierarchy agent thought she'd have
any idea what to do about bomb in the first place. She worked in I.T.,
not a bomb squad, and there wasn't a chance in hell she'd be able to
disarm it; the best she could manage would be setting it off as a last
act of defiance when the Hunters finally arrived.

The only person she'd ever know who'd had the kind of technical
know--how to disarm an anti--matter bomb had been dead for over half a
year, and Jen was sure that even if he had been here to help she'd only
have ended up standing in another room with eyes closed and fingers in
her ears as though it'd somehow help.

Jen left the Abrogator to its ceaseless laughter, finding her way up to
better maintained sections of the facility where the Dark One appeared
to have spent most of his time. There was food and drink here, along
with medical supplies should she need them, but for the moment she
ignored them in favour of the large, comfortable chair at the centre of
the array of surveillance monitors.

Only once she relaxed into the soft cushions did her muscles remind her
of how much they ached, how completely she'd exhausted them, and she let
out an involuntary groan as the past few days finally caught up with
her. Jen closed her eyes, just for a moment, then snapped them wide open
as the words of the Abrogator came back to her.

Bait, it had said, for somebody more important.

"Who?" she asked herself, staring up at the monitors as if they would
provide some kind of answer, and found that there were only a few
possible. As fond as she was of herself, Jen didn't think that she'd
serve as bait for many people, and certainly not very many important
people. "Kirk, maybe? Perhaps someone from Cimbrean?"

Jen laughed to herself; what she wouldn't have given to see a heavily
armed force of elite British soldiers right about now.

Naturally the most obvious answer was the one who was already dead. The
same person who'd stirred up the Hierarchy in the first place and had
forever changed the galaxy in the process.

What would Adrian do, if he was here right now?

Her cheeks flushed involuntarily. *Apart from that!*

Though she put the ideas out of her mind, she still fidgeted with her
short cropped hair as she contemplated the question -- Adrian had
*really* liked it longer, after all -- and it was only a few moment
before she came to the obvious answer: something half--baked and
all--the--way crazy.

Jen immediately reconsidered; unlike Adrian, crazy had never served
*her* very well. She was smart and capable, she wasn't too humble to
admit that, but she wasn't the force of nature that Adrian had been and
she wasn't about to try fighting a fleet of Hunters all by herself. What
she needed was a working ship, or failing that, somebody else with a
working ship, and that meant she needed the transmitter.

The Dark One must have known it was impossible for her to disarm the
bomb, but had banked on her trying to do it anyway out of sheer
desperation, and Jen herself knew that it was impossible.

It was impossible for her to disarm the bomb, but she didn't need to
disarm it if she could simply work around it; an Abrogator, after all,
could be moved.

‚ÅÇ

**Deep Space, Galactic Search Vector**

**A.I.**

Too many errors. It was fair to say that logic was everything to an
Artificial Intelligence, but the more the A.I. considered the situation
the more it seemed to be departing the realms of logic and entering the
world of mysticism and pure faith. On some level it knew where the
problem was -- the Principles of Reality were getting in the way of
things making sense -- but there wasn't anything it could do about
because not only did the Prime Laws tell it that it couldn't think
outside those confines, but that it should find repellent any attempt to
do so.

Logic went that, as the God Emperor was a real and undeniable fact,
other gods might also exist to some lesser extent, and would naturally
form religions around themselves as the God Emperor had amongst the
Irzht. That did not mean that every religion needed to be founded by a
God, there were other explanations for how a species might have come by
their deities, but only Earth could boast the sheer number of faiths,
past and present, with all the stories that went with them.

The A.I. had made a study of them, looking to find some glimmer of truth
in any of it, hoping to find nothing but lies, and eventually finding
that single grain of possibility that changed everything. Humans
believed in an afterlife -- surely just superstition to ensure obedience
amongst the masses -- just as they believed they carried an immortal
soul that may or may not be 'reincarnated' as another creature,
depending on who you asked.

Belief in resurrection had seemed like it was just another facet of this
foolish belief system, or at least it had until the A.I. had begun
cross--referencing each of the stories and found the common thread. It
didn't matter which religion the A.I. studied, if there was resurrection
involved then it always involved a god.

Logic therefore dictated that according to their rules the humans would
also consider Adrian Saunders to be a god. That was not the kind of
answer the A.I. had wanted, because it made everything so much more
difficult.

The A.I. had then began searching the religions for any who might match
Adrian Saunders, just in case they already knew about him, and was able
to immediately discount the major existing religions as unlikely. There
was no chance, for example, that Adrian Saunders was the second coming
of Jesus Christ, just as he wasn't Buddha or -- mostly due to his lack
of arms -- Shiva the Destroyer.

If anything, he matched most closely to the gods of Greece and Rome, who
were just as reckless, chaotic, and destructive as Adrian Saunders, and
had roles such as War and Strife which seemed to fit all too well. The
A.I. had nudged closer, close enough to have risked detection, in order
to uncover the history of the 'Human Disaster', and had discovered a
soldier's past of violence and bloodshed that served only as a portent
to what he had eventually unleashed upon the galaxy.

Even the history from that time amongst the stars only grew more
concerning as it approached the date of the anomaly. Single--handed
slaughter of an army of thousands in an event that reportedly killed him
-- the first of his resurrections -- followed by relationships with
other forces of chaos, such as the Corti anarchist who'd sent stock
markets into turmoil for his own amusement, or the Chehnasho and Gaoian
pirates who'd carved out a name for themselves as individuals to be
feared.

Or even the Pirate Queen herself, Jennifer Delaney, widely considered to
be equally as disruptive to the galaxy as the Human Disaster, though
less like a force of nature, and much to the A.I.'s relief there was
also nothing to suggest that she was any kind of deity either.

Rumours flew between those who were interested in those sorts of thing,
with dozens of theories about the true nature of the relationship
between the Pirate Queen and the Human Disaster. For a while there had
even been bets placed on when or if they would ever become mates, and
questionable fiction written about it, but all that had stopped when
Jennifer Delaney had disappeared and stayed that way.

The popular opinion that she was either dead, or had gone into hiding,
but the A.I. knew better. It had extracted the details from the
databanks of Adrian Saunders vessel as part of the data restoration
process, and had uncovered the truth of the matter. Jennifer Delaney was
marooned on a Deathworld, with the Hierarchy to blame, and she was
nothing more than a piece of bait to lure Saunders into the maw of the
Swarm of Swarms.

*Foolish*, the A.I. mused. The Hierarchy believed they could simply
throw Saunders' name around to summon the Swarm of Swarms, and perhaps
that might be true, and despite historical evidence they actually
believed the Swarm could win. They believed this, because somehow they
still thought that Saunders could actually die. The Hierarchy did not
accept the existence of gods.

They would soon come to find themselves in error.

‚ÅÇ

**Hotel Paragon, Perfection**

**Laphor Metmin**

Laphor allowed herself the pleasure of breathing in the crisp night air
of the garden world, savouring the sweet taste of a natural environment
that carried on the air. Scents of water, flowers and fruit all mixed
together to lend a gentle fragrance to the clean atmosphere of the
planet, creating an aroma that seemed to embody safety and calm.

She was seated at a table outside the hotel's restaurant, where it
overlooked the manicured gardens of the courtyard, and nursed a drink
made of local sweetfruit in one hand. Stars twinkled overhead, but
Laphor didn't look at them, she was far too happy to be back on the
ground. It had been a near thing, with the anomaly and then the errors
in the Navigation system, but they'd finally made it, and she was going
to savour every damned moment of her time here.

There was movement behind her, a familiar gait that indicated a
Chehnasho had joined her, and Laphor winced before giving her greeting.
"Six--Skulls Zripob," she said without looking, "I wasn't expecting
you'd be looking for me until morning."

The Chehnasho legend stepped into her field of view, standing next to
the other chair at her table but making no movement to take a seat for
himself. Instead he looked down at her with disapproval. "We're not here
for relaxation, Captain Laphor."

She ignored the look, and continued her unfocused gaze into the gardens.
"I'm aware of that. Since getting here I've organised repairs, resupply,
and have put out the question as to the whereabouts of the information
broker. Right now I am enjoying a well--earned rest."

Zripob's disapproval intensified into a glare. "If we all took the time
to relax, Captain, our quarry would be forever out of our reach. I shall
deal with the information broker personally. Have you had any other
reports?"

Laphor took a deep breath and then slowly exhaled; her nerves were
already frayed, but it would do no good to lose her temper with somebody
like Six--Skulls Zripob, no matter how irritating he was. "The ship
requires only minor repairs, and the supplies will be loaded by morning.
And then there's the news about the corporate site."

"The massacre," said Zripob; clearly he'd already heard all about it,
though it wasn't something you could miss if you'd only turn on the
local news. "That is unlikely to be the work of Adrian Saunders, but it
does not mean he wasn't involved. I'll know more once I've dealt with
the information broker."

"Then don't let me delay you," Laphor replied, finally sparing a glance
for Six--Skulls. "Just make sure you relay any details you get out of
her."

That clearly annoyed Zripob, but Laphor was beyond caring and found that
she even enjoyed it a little. She held his gaze until he left with a
grunted farewell, and returned to staring at the garden whilst sipping
at her drink.

Staring at the garden helped her think, and there was much for her to
think about. The anomaly, for one. That was something that would haunt
her nightmares for the rest of her life, and it had filled her life with
too many questions to be easily answered.

The first was what had happened, exactly, in the Hravin system? There
wasn't any record of it outside of her own vessel's navigation systems,
and further to that every one of the coordinates in at system was
slightly out. The whole place had been erased, and Laphor felt fortunate
that she had not been erased along with it.

The second question, and more pertinent to her mission, was just what
they were doing still investigating bloody Adrian Saunders? They'd seen
his ship in the anomaly, and there'd been no way he could have survived
that. Zripob had been despondent, and they'd come back to Perfection
with the intention of finally parting ways with him. All it took was a
whiff of a suggestion that the human was still alive, however, and he
was back to his old self.

Laphor muttered a short curse; she wished they'd decided to try for
somewhere else. At least then she could have been free of that Chehnasho
psychopath before he'd realised Saunders had achieved some new miracle
of survival. She wondered if she'd done something to deserve this sort
of thing, and then dismissed the idea; she doubted she was capable of
ever doing anything quite that bad.

There was, however, more than one way to slice a muklon, and for
whatever reason Zripob had forgotten that active warrants existed for
his arrest. She'd already sent a tip to the authorities while she was
submitting the supplies request -- anonymous of course -- and all she
needed to do now was sit and wait for the results.

Provided they sent a small army, and so long as they held the element of
surprise, they might actually come out on top.

The rolling thunder of a distant explosion interrupted her as she was
taking her final sip, and she waited for further sounds of violence
before she placed the cup back on the table and rose from her chair. It
seemed that they had wasted the element of surprise.

‚ÅÇ

**Subterranean Facility, Old V'Straki Colony, Affrag**

**Adrian Saunders**

"I can't help but remember this was much easier the last time we did
it," Adrian grumbled as they descended the elevator shaft by rope,
trying not to think about how 'down' was usually the least challenging
direction. Last time they'd had an Abrogator to use as a platform,
because the elevator itself was well and truly a thing of the past, but
they'd left the suborned robot back in the anomaly and didn't have much
in the way of alternatives.

It wasn't even as though they even had proper rope for the climb, he'd
been forced to make do with the strongest cabling he kept on hand for
repairs, and that in itself brought back unpleasant memories of nearly
plummeting down a corridor on the Celzi warship he'd then crashed into
Cimbrean. "This had better be fucking worth it, mate."

"It will be worth it," Xayn assured him from below. "Provided there's
enough power remaining."

Adrian paused and looked down at his V'Straki companion, frowning most
expressively so that Xayn would know exactly how he was feeling right
now. "You didn't mention that bit before."

"It doesn't matter," Xayn replied, the effort making him grunt between
his words, "we're descending on energy conduits, and your vessel is
vastly overpowered. I will just have additional work to do if we need to
rely on that."

They made the rest of their journey without further conversation, each
of them focused on putting one hand after the other, and eventually made
it down to the rusted pile of debris that had once been the elevator.
Small clouds of dust rose when each of them dropped down onto it, though
far more was permanently caked on by time.

Adrian coughed once, and waved the dust aside. "Place needs a good
vacuum."

"I prefer having atmosphere," Xayn replied, edging forward. He had his
gun out, just in case they weren't as alone down here as they'd been
expecting, and Adrian followed close behind with his shotgun unslung.

They'd made the descent dimly illuminated by a torch hung from Adrian's
belt, and Xayn made no move to activate the glaring lights of the
facility. Instead they turned the torch off.

With his thermal vision Adrian could see in darkness, and provided he
was wearing his combat goggles, so could Xayn. A robot might manage the
same, but they ran quite hot and would be a lot more obvious against the
cool environment.

There was, as expected, nothing to be concerned about; the place
remained as abandoned as it had been when they'd left it. They did a
quick second sweep before they were satisfied, and only then did Xayn
turn the lights on.

"Like you'd never left," Adrian observed dryly. It had been a lived--in
mess of spare and broken parts, open packages containing the desiccated
remnants of leftover food, and a scattering of tools. The damage from
their initial exchange of weapons--fire could easily go unnoticed in
this kind of environment. Now that he thought about it, this was exactly
the sort of place you'd expect a bachelor technician to end up living
in. Hell, he'd had a workshop of his own back on Earth, and there was
more than a little resemblance.

Xayn ignored the comment, or more likely simply didn't understand the
underlying jibe, and proceeded to the master terminal to check
everything was in order. The growl he made shortly thereafter proved
that it wasn't.

"Problem?" Adrian asked, stepping up next to him and looking at the
V'Straki display. He could read it, if he took his time -- he'd been
able to read that language ever since the Zhadersil had dropped a
data--dump into his head when it made him Shiplord -- but it was faster
to just ask Xayn for the short version.

Xayn glanced up at him, then returned to the display with a studious
eye. "Power levels are well below what they should be!"

The main problem with the colony power supply, Xayn had earlier
explained, was that there simply wasn't enough of it. They had limited
storage, and an even more limited reactor, to the point that they had
needed to budget power for any work they did do. Once they'd done all
they could do, they'd return to stasis and let the storage slowly
recharge. If it was already drained, and if Adrian hadn't made a habit
of carrying around an unreasonable amount of spare energy conduit, they
would have been shit out of luck.

"Something we did in this other timeline?" Adrian asked.

"Yes," Xayn confirmed after a moment longer. "Power logs show we already
expended much energy in the lathe. I suspect we've already done what we
came here to do."

"Doesn't help us much now, though," said Adrian. "Not unless they left
this 'battle suit' behind, and what do you reckon the chances of that
are?"

"Not good."

A cursory check revealed that they had not indeed left themselves any
gifts, though Adrian had no idea why they might have fabricated them in
this timeline when Xayn hadn't made any such offer in theirs.

"Perhaps you simply made a better first impression," Xayn suggested when
Adrian put the question to him, and it made sense that Xayn might not
have wanted to open up the entirety of V'Straki technology to somebody
he didn't trust, regardless of the promises they made.

They spent a full day down there while Xayn designed and assembled a
power converter that would allow them to power the colony with the power
from Spot. It was work that would have taken an hour at most, had they
the use of the lathe, but as it was Xayn had been forced to strip
existing equipment for the parts required.

Eventually he was satisfied, and with Askit's help on the surface they
were able to run enough power that they could fully replenish the
storage in less than two days. But they were on a schedule, and that
would happen on its own time; Xayn redirected every last drop of that
power to the lathe, the molecular fabricator that had allowed them to
build and maintain this base without resupply.

"Why didn't the Zhadersil have one of these?" Adrian asked, standing
before the massive enclosure that housed the equipment. It was, from the
outside, not all that dissimilar to an enormous microwave oven, but on
the inside it had far more in common with the 3d Printers that were
still an emerging technology back on Earth. He could only imagine how
useful it would have been to have had access to something this powerful,
rather than the basic workshop that he and Trix had needed to rely on.

"It did," Xayn replied. "This is it. The crew disassembled it and
brought it down here where it would be of more use."

"Fucking great," Adrian said without enthusiasm. "So this thing can make
absolutely anything?"

"Within reason," said Xayn. "It must be supplied with adequate
materials. And yes, we still have adequate materials."

Adequate materials turned out to be piles of carefully chosen scrap, all
of which needed to be carted from various parts of the base to the Lathe
for it to harvest. Another half--day of this, and Xayn finally announced
that the machine was ready to start work.

Adrian had expected the process to take longer, but the whole of it was
complete in under an hour. The result was a single, steely battlesuit
that made an art--form of looking hideous; compared to this monstrosity
he could even find beauty in the horrible brown, combat--reinforced
vacuum suits that were favoured by the rest of the galaxy.

Technologically it wasn't anything particularly miraculous; it was
mostly just layers and layers of plate armour. It had fully articulate
joints, thanks to a series of interlocking platelets, and was completely
sealed against the environment. Inside it was padded for comfort and
pressure, and an extensive network of shaped kinetics ensured that not
only could it actually be moved but that it would do so with relative
ease -- though they weren't powerful enough to make him any stronger --
and it'd let him manoeuvre in microgravity if he ever again found
himself drifting in space. It was also far bulkier than he had expected,
and he reckoned he'd be half a foot bigger in every direction once he
put it on.

"Holy fuck," Adrian said, circling the monstrosity at a distance while
Xayn described the technical elements in detail. He had been expecting
something more like Iron Man, but this was god damned impressive even if
it would make him look like the villain. "Are those... does it have
fucking guns on its fucking arms?"

"Zheron cannons," Xayn confirmed. "Like my weapon, but with far more
power and a longer cool--down period. It'll melt right through your
flesh if you ignore it."

"Think I'll avoid doing that, then."

"Both weapons are linked to the onboard combat sensor--suite," Xayn went
on. "The computer will identify targets, and assist with your aim. It
also provides an augmented display that will allow you to see
full--spectrum."

Adrian whistled appreciatively. "That is fucking nice! Where's yours?"

He might have asked the question as an afterthought, but even as it left
his lips he found himself extremely interested in the answer. Xayn had
not mentioned making one for himself, and from the looks of it they
hadn't bothered loading enough material for it either. Instead he looked
very uncomfortable, like he was trying to pick his words with too much
care.

"You don't plan on making one, do you?" Adrian asked, directing a level
gaze at the V'Straki. "Do your people actually use these things? Is
there something fucking wrong with it that I should know about?"

"There is nothing *wrong* with it," Xayn quickly replied. "But the suits
were normally reserved for the dying, so that they could end their lives
in glory."

"End their lives in glory," Adrian repeated, casting a suspicious eye
across the battlesuit for anything that looked as though it might kill
him in the process of using it. "Just what the fuck is this thing going
to do to me?"

‚ÅÇ

"The battlesuit is powered by a micro--reactor," Xayn said, beginning
his explanation circuitously. "They were built to strike hard, with the
total destruction of the enemy as the highest priority. They were
designed for victory alone -- the reactor is purpose--built to detonate
in death or mission failure."

It was, in other words, a suicide suit. No doubt that seemed pertinent,
even suitable given what Adrian was going up against, but the idea of
leaping into combat with an unstable reactor strapped to his back didn't
exactly serve to excite.

Adrian gave the V'straki a hard look. "I'm going to be very clear about
this mate: I don't want to fucking explode."

"It will only detonate if you die," Xayn protested. "Why would it matter
to you if you're already dead?"

"It might matter to whoever's fucking standing right next to me!" Adrian
growled. This was, after all, a rescue mission, and he didn't want to
accidentally blow everyone up if he got himself killed. Hell, he didn't
want to blow up anything up at all, and he damned well didn't want to
run around wearing something that might explode just because it felt
like it. "You need to fucking well disable that, mate."

Xayn did so reluctantly -- though he made a point of noting that only
the software itself had been adjusted and that the reactor remained
hard--wired -- and only once he had finished, and with equal reluctance,
did Adrian step into the suit.

It closed around him like a glove, the soft--padded interior pressing
gently across his entire body, though from what Xayn had described it
wasn't simply for his comfort. Behind that padding were multiple layers
of protection, and the kinetic technology intended to compensate for all
of it. It wasn't power armour, not like the movies imagined it, this was
more like wearing his own personal tank, with the whole thing designed
to just keep him alive and mobile long enough to really fuck the enemy
up. He experimented with moving his arms, and found they shifted with as
much ease as with any of the traditional armoured vacuum suits had
allowed.

It didn't offer any increase to his strength, either. He tested it on
one of the crates they'd carried the scrap in, and found it just as
heavy as it had been before. Then he punched it, and sent it tumbling
across the room where it struck the wall and bent.

He turned to look at Xayn, noting the way the augmented display analysed
and targeted the V'Straki and the weapon at his side, while an
information stream in the top right provided a running report on
environmental data and everything else it deemed of interest. The crate,
for example, had a small display of its own where the sensor suite
announced that it was no longer a threat.

"I thought," said Adrian, pausing as the suit repeated his words in a
deep, rumbling cadence that was definitely intended for psychological
effect, "that this suit wasn't supposed to make me stronger."

"It does not," Xayn replied, seemingly unfazed by the voice. "But it has
significant mass, and you are fast and strike hard even without it. You
should avoid carelessly touching things you do not wish to destroy."

Force is the product of mass and acceleration; momentum of mass and
velocity. He was fast, Xayn was right about that, and the Yoga and
exercise was only making him faster, and while it seemed the kinetics
were designed only to help him move naturally in the suit, it also
seemed that the weight of a small car was behind every one of those
movements.

That was easily more dangerous than it sounded, and Adrian made a mental
note to be very careful when bringing this thing into Spot. One wrong
move and he'd stumble through a wall, tear apart some piece of vital
equipment, or accidentally crush the resident Corti. It was like being a
bull in a China shop, except in this case the bull was an ancient,
ultra--destructive combat suit and the shop was about half the stuff he
still cared about.

"Are you confident in your movement?" Xayn asked after a moment longer,
stepping around the battlesuit to inspect it, but remaining just out of
reach. "We should venture back to the surface if you are; I will not
allow you to test weapons down here!"

Adrian checked his movements again, and found the sensation strange but
straightforward. "It seems easy enough," he said, which he should have
expected if the dying had been the most common to make use of it. "How
do we get it up there?"

"You will need to go to the elevator and engage flight mode."

Adrian frowned, cocking a puzzled eyebrow. "I thought you said that this
can't fly under full gravity?"

Xayn cleared his throat, purposefully making the gesture to convey his
reluctance to make his next statement. "It cannot," he admitted. "We
will have to tie it to the conduit, and then lift it ourselves. The suit
kinetics will negate much of the mass."

"And just how much won't they negate?" Adrian asked, his glare concealed
by the helmet, but his voice carrying enough of the emotion behind it to
make Xayn wince.

"Approximately (half a tonne)."

Half a tonne... Adrian found his body aching in anticipation of not only
the effort required to get it up there, but the effort to get himself
back up there first. If he'd known it was going to take this amount of
muscle--power, he might have paid a quick trip to Cimbrean to borrow a
fucking winch. He made a mental note to find one and install it on Spot
at the earliest opportunity.

"You, mate," Adrian said slowly and emphatically, "are a complete
fucking arsehole."

‚ÅÇ

**Amber Radiance, Perfection**

**Laphor Metmin**

The local news had been covering the destruction in the capital for
hours, and as the authorities seemed to be withholding the details of
the cause behind it the reporters were all running wild with
speculation. It seemed settled that a node on the power grid had caused
a massive power surge, and every news program had its own expert giving
their theory on just what might have been behind it. None of them were
guessing 'Chehnasho Psychopath', so it seemed that the entire planet was
not yet hunting Zripob down, or hiding away in their homes until he was
either captured or gone.

Laphor had returned to the Amber Radiance once she'd finished her drink,
and had proceeded to switch between news networks to see if anybody had
anything new to say on the matter. Had the authorities been successful?
Had Zripob been spotted somewhere? Did anybody have any idea what was
damned well going on? The answer to all of these questions seemed to be
a resounding 'no', and so she was not surprised when Zripob did
eventually return, but was merely deeply disappointed.

When she'd decided to betray the Chehnasho mercenary, she'd hoped that
the local authorities who'd failed so miserably when confronted by the
Human Disaster might have at least managed taking on Six--Skulls Zripob
when she'd told them what to expect. They should have gone at him in
full force, they should have killed him if they couldn't force him to
surrender, and yet from the looks of things the best they had managed to
do was hurt him badly and piss him off.

"We need to get out of here!" Zripob demanded as he stepped onto the
command deck. He glowered at Laphor, but mainly out of his general anger
rather than any particular suspicion. It was just as likely a fa√ßade to
cover his pain; his left arm hung limply at his side, he oozed blood
from several shallow wounds across his face and chest, and he walked
with a pronounced limp. "Take us to the nearest Gaoian colony. There's
someone we need to see."

Laphor indicated to her crew that they should follow the instruction,
quietly pleased by the fact that they once again glanced her way for
confirmation. "I take it you found Vakno?"

"I did," Zripob replied curtly. "She was very informative."

"Is she still alive?" Laphor asked, wondering if Zripob might have
simply killed the information broker out of spite, once he'd gotten
everything he needed from her.

"She was somewhat wounded during the conversation," Zripob admitted,
"but bones can be mended."

Laphor nodded, and looked him up and down. "Speaking of which, you
should see to your own injuries."

Zripob glared at her, but he had no chance but to concede to her point.
He nodded reluctantly, clearly annoyed that she now dared to speak so
freely to him. "Then I shall make my way to the medical room. Is there
anything else I should know before we depart?"

"Nothing I can think of," Laphor replied, smiling innocently. She
watched him leave in a huff and scowled at the door that closed behind
him. The only reason she'd waited for that bastard was because if she'd
left then Zripob would have known it was her who tipped them off.
However angry he was now, that would have paled in comparison to the
murderous rage he'd come after her with, and there was no way she was
going to submit her crew to a nightmare of that magnitude.

There was also no chance she could make another attempt on the Gaoian
colony, or likely anywhere until they finally reached whoever he was
after now. It seemed that she had two options, to either complete
Zripob's increasingly crazed mission, or to sabotage him when he'd never
see it coming. There was no need to decide right away, not when there
was one last play.

Laphor connected to the planetary message board and added a single
notice to the relationships forum. Something short, something anonymous,
and something that would get the attention of a certain infuriated
information broker. She had no doubt that with Vakno's help they could
both get what they wanted.

‚ÅÇ

**The Dark One's Lair**

**Jennifer Delaney**

It had not been easy to move the laughing Abrogator--bomb to the nearest
starship. There was not, for instance, any kind of trolley you might
find in a warehouse back on Earth. The Abrogator, being the sort of
alien thing that relied on only one means of movement, had no wheels,
and was not yet complete enough to have had its kinetics installed. What
this had necessitated was about three hours of slowly inching it along
the corridor, wincing at the sound of metal scraping against metal,
holding her breath at the creaking of buckling supports as she passed
under them, and wishing the fucking thing had some kind of mute button.
By the time she'd actually reached what was left of her starship she'd
decided that if the Dark One had wanted to really piss her off, he'd
certainly done a good job.

Jennifer Delaney would have the last laugh, though, of that she was
determined. She didn't know shit about alien technology, not like Adrian
had, but from what she had picked up she'd learned that the
pre--assembled stuff was what the I.T. world liked to call
'plug--and--play'. In other words she just needed to park the Abrogator
close enough, plug the right cable into it, and then let the magic
happen.

Today, however, the Gods of technology were not with her. What cable
existed was far too short to pull from the communications console, let
alone plug it into a sub--space transmitter inside an Abrogator. Jen
muttered a curse under her breath, then decided to hell with it and just
shouted the word at the top of her lungs. The whole lair echoed with it,
and she felt a little better.

"Think, idiot!" she told herself. This sort of thing was something she
ought to be good at, after all. She'd been in I.T. for too fucking long
not to be able to figure out a problem like this. The cable didn't
reach, so that meant either getting the two things closer together --
which was impossible -- or replacing or lengthening the cable itself.

It only took two minutes before she found an identical, albeit much
longer cable from the useless navigations console. She held her breath
as she worked the cord through those belonging to the bomb, and used a
couple thin metal rods to help guide it into the data--port. The beep
that followed nearly made her shit herself, until she realised it had
come from the transmitter, and she fell back breathing heavy from that
one moment of terror.

That her ship still had any kind of power was like a miracle, and she
wasn't sure why it was the case. Perhaps the Dark One simply wanted to
mess with her by giving her a powered starship that couldn't fly, next
to an unpowered starship that possibly could. If it was a taunt, it was
clear that he hadn't expected Jen to be able to make any use of it, and
for Jen that made her victory all the sweeter. The communications system
was online, and all relevant systems checked out.

She activated the beacon, and then spoke clearly into the microphone to
record her name, her request and her coordinates. And now, after all
she'd gone through, she'd reached a point where she could do no more.
The transmitter would broadcast until it broke or lost power, help would
either arrive in time or it wouldn't, and all she could do was watch the
skies and wait. It seemed anti--climactic to have come this far only to
depend on somebody else, but surely even Jen the 'Chosen One' couldn't
be expected to do everything?

What she wanted now, especially now that she'd done all she could, was
to lay down and rest in the bunk still present towards the back of her
ship. One night of sleep in an actual bed, she promised herself, and
then she'd head back down to the Agwarens and face the coming threat
alongside them.

Just one night.

‚ÅÇ

**Date Point: 3Y 9M 1W 3D AV**

**Swarm of the Brood That Stalks**

**Alpha of the Brood That Stalks**

Despite the efforts of the Alpha--of--Alphas, the news that the Cursed
Human, Adrian Saunders, had somehow managed to survive their last
encounter had rippled through the Swarm of Swarms, the information
trickling through each Swarm, each Brood, until only the most ignorant
Hunter had not yet heard. It had shaken them, but it was clear that the
human had simply had one last trick, and that the next time they
encountered him they simply needed to strike more carefully.

That had at least been the idea at the time. Attempts to track the human
had proven futile, he moved around too quickly for the Swarm to respond,
and he did not trust easily enough that spies had any chance of getting
close to him. It seemed like a lost cause, but not one that the Hunters,
if they were to retain their pride, could simply abandon. The
Alpha--of--Alphas had decided to bide its time, wait for the
opportunity, and then seize it.

And the opportunity *had* come.

Somehow -- the Alpha of the Brood That Stalks didn't know how -- their
spies had learned where the Cursed Human was headed. It was a Deathworld
in what the Prey called the Ilrayen Band, a place far removed from the
homes of the Prey and therefore just as far from the normal hunting
grounds. And the reason the Cursed Human was going there was to rescue
another human, the Pirate Queen who had harried so many Hunter vessels
in the Outer Reaches that they had been forced to hunt elsewhere.

It was too good an opportunity to pass up.

But that had made the Alpha--of--Alphas suspicious. It might be a
Deathworld, with all the challenges that posed, but even so it all
seemed far too easy. It had seemed easy the last time as well, and that
had turned to catastrophic defeat, so the Alpha of the Brood That Stalks
had been tasked with the honour and the risk.

The Alpha clicked its maw, trepidation mixing with excitement. It knew
the danger better than many, having been amongst the few survivors of
the last encounter, and while many of its Broodlings chittered about the
coming victory, like it was a certainty, those who'd been there with the
Alpha remained similarly quiet. The coming Hunt was not to be the
vibrant, joy--filled slaughter that was standard amongst Prey, and nor
would it be the rapid, overpowering assault that had worked against
other humans on the worlds that had kept them.

This Hunt was to be careful, planned and well--considered. The Cursed
Human and the Pirate Queen were both far more resourceful, far more
physically dangerous than other humans, and underestimating them would
certainly prove costly. The Swarm would enter under stealth, it would
observe, and then it would strike only when it made sense.

They approached the blue--grey world under full cloak, splitting into a
thousand different orbital vectors that would give them full coverage of
the planet. A probe was sent to test the atmosphere, registering it as
Class 9. Not ideal, but nothing the Hunters could not handle. The
biosphere was the most likely cause for the Deathworld classification,
but the Alpha had equipped its Swarm with fusion blades that could
strike down even a Deathworld creature, and plenty of Nervejam grenades.
Those weapons were dangerous to its Brood as well, of course, but losing
even a hundred Broodlings to one would be worth it if they could just
bring down the Cursed Human.

It was a primitive world. Passive scans indicated only a single
significant source of technology, an extensive complex located in a
mountain range. They'd received the distress call from the Pirate Queen
days ago, and it was from here that it was being broadcast.

The question, the Alpha reckoned, was whether it was a lure, or whether
it was genuine, and there was no way to be sure without sending scouts
down to investigate. It was impossible to proceed without being certain,
and required only a handful of Broodlings.

It had to be done carefully; putting down a whole ship was simply too
risky, even with all the precautions they'd taken it was still possible
the Pirate Queen might steal it and make her escape.

Instead, the Alpha sent a handful of its most expendable. They could be
retrieved if they found nothing, but it would be no great loss if the
Pirate Queen tore them to pieces instead, and at least then they'd know
where she was.

The mission was mounted, the Broodlings deployed, and the Alpha watched
what was transmitted through their cybernetics.

The base was large, and empty, and filled with a raucous noise that
seemed to emanate from inside a partially dismantled starship. What the
point of all of it had been was anybody's guess, but the place stood
idle now. The scouts spread out in loose formation, careful to keep eyes
on all angles as they approached the starship in question. Nothing
moved, though it seemed that somebody had inhabited it recently; a quick
genetic scan indicated that it had been a human.

The Alpha clicked its maw again, this time in mounting anticipation. If
it could just confirm the human was still there... It saw the machine
that stood by the communications console, and realised it was the source
of the noise.

An alarm? Or was it a trap? Either way, turning it off would probably
lure the human out of hiding, if she was there, and then the Alpha could
mount a serious attempt to kill her.

*Destroy that machine*, it commanded the Broodlings, and they
immediately obliged by slicing straight through it with a fusion blade.
The metal melted away as the blade descended, carving a path from top to
bottom and---

And then the transmission cut out, and a mountain range exploded. Shock
ran though the fleet as reports flashed through, indicating that an
anti--matter explosion had just made a major geographical alteration to
the planet. The Scouts had been atomised on the spot -- no great loss
there -- but that left the whereabouts of the human woman completely
unknown.

Was she responsible for this? Was she even alive, or had somebody simply
set a trap for the Hunters to walk right into? The Alpha let out a long,
furious hiss of frustration.

There had to be something more than that. It directed the next command
to half of the fleet, its mind clouded by anger. *Descend*, it ordered.
*Find something! Find everything!*

Roughly five hundred Hunter ships broke from formation a moment later,
dropping towards the planet below and switching off their cloaking
systems in favour of their sensors.

They would eventually find anything worth finding.
:::
