---
title: Going Commando
---

# Going Commando

\

\

::: chapter
**Date Point: 3Y 8M 4W 1D AV**

**Orbit of Perfection, Class Three Dominion World**

**Adrian Saunders**

"Thank fuck that\'s over," Adrian grumbled, feeling battered and bruised
as he returned to his seat. Spot had burst through the edge of the
atmosphere mere moments ago and as he figured it they should be almost
home free. "They can\'t track us anymore, right Trix?"

"We\'re now passing through hard vacuum," Trix reported, "so there
won\'t be a problem unless we run into something. For the record that\'s
reasonably unlikely."

"Space is big," Darragh interpreted. "Right... so about those
clothes..."

Adrian eyed the Irishman with a withering look. "Mate, I haven\'t
exactly got clothes in your size, so the best I can do right now is a
vacuum suit. You\'re probably going to need to lose the bag."

"Oh good," Darragh replied unhappily. "I\'m sure it will be fecking
delightful going commando in a vacuum suit. How long again before we can
go somewhere with a tailor?"

"We weren\'t really planning on doing a lot of shopping, Adrian said,
wondering if this rescue was really going to be worth the effort.
"But... if we go somewhere with a market, we\'ll see what we can do.
There\'s probably fucking something I could use, myself."

"Going \'shopping\' suggests you have an intention to pay for things,"
Trix opined. "You don\'t have any money. In fact, you\'re probably the
most prolific thief in the known galaxy."

Adrian turned an annoyed eye towards the nearest camera. "Well,
everybody needs to be good at something," he replied. "Turns out I\'m a
fucking good crim. Mum\'d be proud."

"So when you say shopping..." Darragh mused, "you actually mean
stealing."

Swivelling around on his chair to properly face the scantily clad
Irishman, Adrian raised a querulous eyebrow. "You\'re dressed in a sack,
mate, I don\'t think you should be fucking complaining about *how* you
get new clothes."

"Alright," Darragh conceded, raising both hands in yielding, "that\'s a
fair point. I\'m not in any position to be picky. I just thought it
might be difficult to find a tailor who\'ll agree to dress me if he\'s
not getting paid."

"Problem for later mate," Adrian replied, turning back to keep an eye on
his console. "Right now we\'re..."

He trailed off, frowning at what he saw. They were fast approaching the
position where the Superior Firepower was supposed to be, but it should
have been under cloak and therefore undetectable. "Trix," he said,
"exactly why can we detect the Command Cruiser?"

Trix was silent for a moment, and she\'d done this enough times for
Adrian to recognise when she was working. Shortly she came back with an
answer. "Some sort of hull--breach is my nearest guess, but I can\'t
actually *find* a breach."

Darragh shared a glance with Adrian, both of them now frowning. "Sorry,
but... wouldn\'t that sort of thing would normally be pretty obvious?"

It should have been, and that it wasn\'t raised some serious red flags
with Adrian. "Something\'s wrong."

"I could increase scan power, but it would give away our position," Trix
offered. "And I can\'t promise it would necessarily help."

"Let\'s not bother," Adrian said. "I think we should treat this
situation as being very fucking suspect."

"You think something has happened aboard your bigger ship?" Darragh
asked, then seemed to consider what he\'d just said. "It... would be in
keeping with the rest of your adventures."

Adrian issued a derisive snort. "Adventures! Mate, I think you\'d better
go jump in a fucking Vac--Suit. We don\'t know how reliable the
Cruiser\'s going to be, and if I end up having your naked arse pressing
against me again I may turn a gun on it and then myself."

Darragh stood up promptly. "No problem, there\'s no need to start
shooting anyone or anything... I\'ll go get a suit on and you just...
focus your killing aura or whatever it\'s fecking called."

Adrian sighed, turning his eyes forward and shaking his head slightly as
the young Irishman wandered off to find the fabled vacuum suit. "Now
would be a great time for some good news, Trix."

"Looks like the landing deck is clear," she replied. "We should be able
to dock in there as usual. Good enough?"

"Good enough," he agreed. "Have we heard anything from Askit?"

"No," she replied. "No we have not."

‚ÅÇ

**Secret Prison**\
**Chir**

Of all the things that Chir had been expecting of his imprisonment, the
prospect of an early release had not been amongst them. Certainly he\'d
known, based on Layla\'s revelations, that he would soon be put to work
on the task of tracking down and killing his old human comrade, but to
him that had seemed like it would be weeks, if not months away, plenty
of time for him to fully absorb the scale of treachery that had been
enacted upon him.

Wrapped up as he was in his own impotent fury, he fully ignored the
presence of the Corti male who had entered the chamber. That was, at
least, until the loathsome creature did the universe a disservice by
speaking.

"Good news, Gaoian," the Corti said, although even if he had dispensed
with the regular, dull speech pattern of his species it would have been
doubtful that anything *good* was going to come next. "It seems we have
an unexpected window of opportunity. Adrian Saunders has arrived on this
planet and caused several... incidents. He has only just departed, and
*you* will be going after him."

Chir looked up from his paws. Unable to take it out on those who
deserved it, he\'d been fidgeting in an effort to managed his stress. He
had been largely successful in refraining from any significant
outbursts, but he still glared at his captor with hate--filled eyes, and
spoke with a voice brimming with acid. "And how, exactly, do you expect
me to go after him if he\'s already left?"

The edge of the Corti\'s mouth twitched, the best that most of them
could manage for a smile. "You are fortunate, it seems that in this
matter our generosity is excessive. You will be allowed to take one of
our smaller craft, big enough for *your* purposes, and only capable of
sub--light velocities."

Chir barked out a scoffing laugh. "You expect me to chase after him
*without* faster--than--light technology?"

"We expect you to transmit a distress beacon," the Corti replied. "Our
models predict that he will arrive to save you from trouble."

Models could be wrong, Chir thought, although he *was* fairly sure that
Adrian wouldn\'t just leave him drifting if he was still in the area;
the human was many things, and possibly a monster of many kinds, but not
of that one. At least that was what Chir liked to believe. "It\'s a
solid theory," he admitted. "What of *Layla*?"

He had almost growled the name.

"She is in our care," the Corti said. "Your child is as safe as it has
ever been, provided you hold up your end of our arrangement. Are you
intending to behave yourself once out of your cell?"

Chir growled, wanting more than anything to burst free and carve a path
of death through this Corti and through anyone else that stood between
him and the mother of his child. But harming this Corti was more likely
to result in consequences not repaid by that brief moment of
satisfaction.

He bowed his head in acquiescence. "I will obey."

The edge of the Corti\'s lips twitched again, and he opened the cell
with enough confidence not to retreat, or even flinch, as Chir stepped
out. That revealed a supreme confidence in his authority over Chir, a
belief that he was powerless to resist and smart enough to know it; the
most infuriating thing was that Chir knew it, too.

"This way," the Corti said, leading him from that chamber to the next.
This one did not contain a cell, but held monitoring equipment that
spied on the room they\'d just exited, along with a pair of waiting
Corti operatives bearing typical expressionless faces and the
now--ubiquitous Irbzrkian stunguns.

It was a strange feeling to be glad that not everybody was so confident
that he was entirely subdued, and he refrained from staring at the
weapons in case they thought he was getting any dangerous ideas.

"These men will escort you to the vessel," said the Corti he\'d been
released by, evidently the superior to these two. "The vessel has basic
supplies, and resources for you in your mission. There is a communicator
that will allow you to contact us without relying on systems monitored
by that subversive *Hacker*."

It was an odd thing to hear emotion laid heavy upon the words of a
Corti, and although disdain featured highly on the emotions they touched
on it was only ever Askit who\'d applied emotion so liberally to his
speech. There was also little doubt that it was Askit of whom he spoke,
and although Chir had usually associated the little Corti with feelings
of annoyance and mistrust, today he couldn\'t help but think well of
him. How could he be entirely bad if he was capable of inspiring this
level of hatred amongst people like this?

Chir wondered exactly how much of the demands to kill the Corti hacker
were based on what he\'d done to them, and how much he caused them
resentment. Little doubt it was a strong mix, and given what grief they
had brought upon his captors it would be a pity to deprive the universe
of people like Askit and Adrian. Chir was adamant that, if it did come
to that, if he really *could* bring down a force as strong as the Human
Disaster, it should be easy enough to bring ruin to a gang of conspiracy
stereotypes.

He glared at his Corti captor once again, considering how sweet it would
be to repay that blood--debt tenfold. Between Gaoians there were limits
to feuds, limits to revenge, set in stone by the Mothers since time
immemorial. Rules created to prevent the menfolk from butchering each
other, rules to segregate the males and the females so that, when there
was fighting, it was limited. When it came to other species, however,
there was no threat to the Gaoian race, and there were no such rules
establish to protect the others. They may abide by the rules of the
Dominion, but as far as the culture of Gao was concerned Chir would be
free to overfill his cup with vengeance.

"I will go," he said flatly, barely able to keep his temper under
control, aching for the moment he could afford to let it break. "But
there is one question I would have answered: where is Kefani Keil?"

"That is not something that you need to know," the Corti replied,
equally flatly. "She is no longer your concern."

"Not my *concern*?" Chir repeated, a growl edging at his voice. "I was
her commanding officer, she has always been my concern. Tell me where
she is or our \'arrangement\' is off!"

"You would *threaten* me?" the Corti asked, surprised, and behind him
Chir heard the slight change in charge that accompanied stungun
activation.

Chir got his anger back under control. "I... no, of course not."

"Do you forget," the Corti sneered, "what it is we hold hostage,
*Gaoian*? Do you forget that if you wish to see your *child* that you
will do exactly what we say? There will be no concessions, and there
will be no modifications to the arrangement! We. Own. You."

There was a tense moment, and Chir was keenly aware of both stunguns
being active and pointed directly at him. The Corti in front of him was
swathed in self--confidence, an intrinsic knowledge that he had every
advantage over his Gaoian prisoner. His Gaoian slave.

Chir couldn\'t help but remember a promise he had made, to himself, some
time ago. Bearing that in mind, he shrank away, giving the illusion of a
man defeated when in fact his blood was boiling over.

"I see," he said quietly, and rejoined his two armed escorts with his
head hanging low like a scolded cub. The tension eased, and the guards
turned to walk him out of the facility.

Prior to the discovery of humans, Gaoians had been highly regarded for
their physical capabilities. Their homeworld was heavy by Galactic
standards, and as omnivores they had bodies built for hunting. The feats
of humanity had made the galaxy forget all of that, but in this one
moment Chir would remind them.

A careful paw slipped around the strap of the nearest guard, unnoticed
by all until it snapped tight and slammed the gun against his gullet.
The Corti choked, and Chir pulled back harder, strangling the bastard
while using him as a shield against his comrade.

Less careful now, he twisted the stungun in the asphyxiating Corti\'s
hands and turned it against the other, forcing a blast from a broken
grey hand and catching the other in the side of its bulging skull. Blue
lightning tore away at it in arcs that leapt between sub--dermal
implants, blowing small holes in valuable brain matter.

With one more violent twist of the gun, the soldier in Chir\'s arms
gurgled his last, stiffened, and went forever limp. He threw the corpse
aside and let the stungun reconfigure to his own gene--code.

"Well," he said to the Corti whose sudden dearth of superiority still
seemed to be dawning on him. "It looks like the arrangement has
changed."

The Corti recovered his composure with surprising speed, going so far as
to step forward and point an accusing finger at Chir, who was only
pointing a gun.

"You have doomed yourself by these actions!" the Corti told him, his
words venomous. "But I will overlook punishing your offspring if you
simply *do as you are told*! This is a one time offer, Chir!"

Chir casually lowered the power settings on the gun to half a notch
below sub--lethal, and shot he Corti in the groin. He watched with
significant satisfaction as the grey creature sank to the floor with a
weak wail of pain and began shuddering in near silence.

"That was my counter--offer," Chir growled in reply. "Are you willing to
listen to my terms and conditions?"

The Corti raised a face full of loathing to regard Chir. "You..." he
snarled, "you\'re no better than the *humans*! Kill me and you will
never escape the facility! Your child will be dead before tomorrow, and
the human female will be used for *dissection*!"

Chir didn\'t answer right away; he marched towards the fallen alien and
made each step as deliberate and imposing as he could manage. The Corti
twisted away, trying to crawl in the opposite direction, and when Chir
reached him he found it all too easy to press the barrel of the weapon
into the only significant Corti orifice that didn\'t do the talking.

The Corti froze.

"I made a promise to myself," Chir said, almost conversationally, "that
I would never be made a slave again. I was determined to kill myself
rather than let *that* happen, but now that you... you \'fucking
arseholes\' have put me on the spot, I find that I\'d much rather kill
all of you instead."

The Corti peeked back over his shoulder, barely willing to make any
movement. "I... your child!"

Chir made a point of turning the power back up on the stungun and
humming along with the charge build--up. "It *sounds* so *gentle*!" he
said, poorly feigning reflection through gritted teeth while pressing
the barrel in a little further. "Doesn\'t it!?"

That was about all it took exhaust the Corti\'s limited supply of
courage and for his resolve to break down completely. "Please..." he
begged, "just... I can\'t help you! You have to realise that it wasn\'t
personal!"

Chir ignored the bleating, and pressed the barrel further until the
Corti gave a terrified squeak from both ends. "Kefani Keil," he
repeated. "Where is she?"

"She\'s on this base," the Corti finally admitted, much less reticent
with a significant portion of a lightning--gun crammed up his rear end.
"She\'s in stasis, room four--six. We were going to put her through
surgery to implant a full cybernetic suite! It was part of an external
contract!"

Point of interest, but no time to follow up on that now; he might not
have much time and he had to make his questions count. "She\'s leaving
with me. What about Layla?"

"Gone home," the Corti revealed. "Her job was over so she left."

"What ship?" Chir demanded. He was determined to find that female and
protect his child no matter what was required. "What was the name of the
ship she left on?"

"I... don\'t know," the Corti attempted to reply. Perhaps it was the
sudden realisation of how unlikely that would seem, or maybe he sensed
Chir\'s suspicion, but he decided to immediately give up on his lie.
"That... that\'s not true... she\'s in the city, Cundleign Hotel!"

Lucky break, Chir thought; he wouldn\'t even need to leave the planet to
start taking care of things. There was, however, one last matter, and
when he asked it he did so in a tone that would put the Corti under no
illusions about how much patience Chir had remaining. "Where is my
ship?"

The Corti hesitated, only to stumble over his words as Chir pressed home
his point. "Corporation has it..." the Corti rushed out. "It\'s headed
to a base near Cavaras!"

"Which Corporation?" Chir asked. "Why?"

"Iridis Industries!" the Corti replied eagerly, now well past the point
where he thought that lies might be helpful. "It was a secondary
mission, in case you failed. Performing acts of terrorism in the name of
Adrian Saunders until he came out, and then killing him in a trap."

The name of Iridis Industries seemed familiar, but not so much so that
Chir could remember the finer details. He didn\'t really need them
anyway, it was clear that they wanted Adrian dead and were willing to
hut everybody else to make it happen. To make them go to this effort,
however, he must have really pissed them off.

"That\'s all?" Chir asked, leaving the door open for any further
information the Corti might want to provide.

The Corti seemed tapped out. "That\'s all!" he insisted. "Believe me!"

"I do believe you," Chir assured him quietly, and waited for the Corti
to begin to relax before pulling the trigger. He held it down until the
continuous discharge burned out both gun and corpse, then let the
remains of both fall to the floor.

"To me," he said, staring down at the smouldering ruin, "it was all
*very* personal."

‚ÅÇ

**Superior Firepower, subverted Hierarchy Command Cruiser**

**Askit**

A star--bright ball of exotic high--energy particles hit the Chehnasho
invader directly in the heavy combat harness, sending a surge of power
through him that obliterated the suit and instantly transformed the
mercenary inside into white ash and sent a wave of heat washing over
everybody in the room.

The two remaining Chehanash invaders turned from what they were doing to
the reactor -- undoubtedly something nefarious -- with guns at the
ready. Their faces switched from veteran--calm to alarm and then to
horror once they had time to process what had just happened to their
comrade and who was responsible.

"I am Xayn, son of Xagh," Xayn informed them, "and I only need *one* of
you!"

The Chehnash sprang to either side and opened fire with anti--tank guns
while Xayn responded in kind. None of them hit the other, but while the
worst an anti--tank gun would do to a hull was to put a sizable dent in
it, the worst that Xayn\'s gun would do was to blow a big hole in it.
Which it did.

Something important exploded -- not the reactor, fortunately -- and all
of the lights flickered. From his position back along the corridor Askit
began the process of figuring out exactly what had just happened while
the V\'Straki went berserk on two mercenaries who had no idea what
they\'d just got messed up in.

"Shit!" Askit exclaimed, seeing the alerts starting to flash all over
his datapad. Overload notifications on all systems, bad and getting
worse, and a damage report on the primary power regulator. Whatever had
happened to it had the reactor constantly thinking that the ship was
being underpowered and that it thereby needed to push more through, and
it didn\'t look like the secondary regulators were up to the task of
stopping the ship from burning out all of its systems. If that was what
one stray shot could manage, Askit didn\'t want there being any more; he
popped out from cover and shouted out a warning to Xayn. "Don\'t shoot
anything else!"

"But they have guns!" he called back, now taking cover from successive
kinetic blasts from two weapons. After seeing what a single shot from
Xayn\'s gun could do to them they probably wanted to prevent him from
even having a chance to take another one.

"Your stray shot just broke my ship!" Askit told him angrily. "I\'m
going to have to shut down major systems to prevent them from getting
burned out along with everything else!"

"Then it is for you to focus on that!" said Xayn. "It is for me to bring
fear to our enemies."

"As long as that means no shooting I\'m completely fine with it!" Askit
replied, tapping away at his datapad. He knew he had to shut down the
major systems that ran the ship, and that he\'d also need to find a way
to spend all the extra energy that was being pushed into the ship, but
it was only a matter of time before the energy buildup started cooking
the conduits and when that began to happen there wouldn\'t be a safe
place to stand on the ship.

"Then it is time to put my martial prowess to the test," decided Xayn,
shifting into a springing position. What he was hoping to do, given that
his \'martial prowess\' seemed to be either hopping from one leg to
another, or slipshod shooting, Askit couldn\'t know, and he found
himself watching out of curiosity as, between bursts of kinetic gunfire,
the V\'Straki sprang high into the air and came down on one of the
surprised Chehnash with the butt of his gun.

That was the end of *him*; Askit knew you didn\'t get that sort of
finalistic crunching sound without a fatality being involved. The
V\'Straki\'s tail whipped around, striking the survivor\'s gun from his
hand, and a powerful kick drove into his chest.

The unfortunate Chehnasho burst, but at least the mess was contained.

"You were supposed to keep one alive!" Askit reminded him, slipping out
from cover to inspect the cover. "It\'s going to be difficult to ask him
questions when all of his insides have exploded out!"

Xayn shot back with an indignant look. "It is not my fault that these
creatures are so easily damaged. These combat suits provided little
resistance to being shattered like an unwanted egg."

"These combat suits are intended to provide shielding against kinetic
and plasma weapons, as well as to provide the wearer with increased
strength," Askit replied. "Most species wouldn\'t be able to break them
like you did."

"Say what you wish, small and grey one," Xayn said, picking over the
broken suit. "These engineering standards are lax by comparison to those
of the V\'Strak. We would never have accepted it into military service."

Askit sighed. "Well, we have bigger problems. If we can\'t do something
about this damage we\'re going to have all of the conduits flashing into
lines of plasma. I\'ve turned off a large number of systems to trick it
into smaller increments, but the overload is still steadily increasing."

"How do we fix this?" Xayn asked. "I am unfamiliar with your style of
technology."

"I don\'t know," Askit replied, feeling entirely out of his depth. "This
is the sort of thing that Adrian normally deals with. I do know that the
hull will soon electrify, so we\'ve got to get some Vacuum Suits on.
Have you... been configured for one?"

Xayn nodded. "Adrian insisted that we do that before we even left my
colony. I said he was paranoid at the time."

"He *is* paranoid, he just happened to be correct," Askit replied. "Get
into it. Then we\'ll figure out what else we can do. If we don\'t act
soon, Adrian will either be arriving to a dead ship, or one that\'s
about to explode."

"Why not contact him and advise him of this fact?" Xayn asked.

Askit shook his head in frustration. "Because the communications systems
are amongst those I was forced to turn off. The overload prevents me
from turning them back on."

"In that case we should shut the reactor down," Xayn suggested. "It will
prevent further damage."

"If we do that we will lose gravity, we will lose the cloak, we will
lose lighting and we will eventually lose the air through the breach,"
Askit told him. "Door control is *also* offline."

Xayn hissed in frustration. "Then I cannot see what else may be done. We
should use the enemy vessel and evacuate."

Askit had not even considered the continued presence of the ship that
had brought the Chehnash aboard. Xayn was, unfortunately, correct in
that the easiest way to correct the problem with the ship was to shut
down the reactor, but that didn\'t mean that they had to lose absolutely
everything as a result. If he could use the other ship\'s kinetics to
seal the hull breach they\'d be able to keep the air, if nothing else,
but that would give them enough time for Adrian to survive no matter how
long he took.

"Get me a Vacuum--Suit," Askit told the waiting V\'Straki, and picked up
one of the datapads in use by the Chehnash. "It\'s got a connection...
and I have work to do."

‚ÅÇ

**Superior Firepower, subverted Hierarchy Command Cruiser**

**Adrian Saunders**

Spot made a clean landing as usual on the Superior Firepower\'s flight
deck, just in time for Darragh to have finished getting himself into the
spare, albeit unarmoured vacuum suit that Adrian kept in case of
emergencies.

"You know," Darragh observed, adjusting himself, "these suits really
aren\'t made for going commando. What are they made from anyway, some
sort of space--spandex?"

Having already made the mistake of looking once, Adrian kept his eyes on
his consoles while he answered. "Something like that. Do you think you
could stop fooling around down there?"

"I suppose, but it\'s still not bloody comfortable," Darragh complained,
taking a seat next to Adrian and peering over at the console. "What\'s
the hold--up, then?"

"There\'s a lot of power charging the Cruiser..." Adrian replied, grimly
considering what that might mean for those aboard. "Is that survivable,
Trix?"

"A Vacuum suit would offer sufficient protection," Trix explained, "at
least until the power reaches critical levels. The relevant systems are
all shut down, however, so I\'m unable to tell exactly how long that
might be."

Adrian glanced at the camera, frowning. "What could have caused that?
Something wrong with the reactor?"

"Diagnosis tools suggest this may be a symptom of an issue with the
primary power regulator," Trix explained. "That is located adjacent to
the reactor, but is not part of it."

"Any sign of life, or of a life--pod ejection?" Adrian asked. He hadn\'t
wanted to ask the question at first, afraid of what the answer might be,
but he was hoping that Askit would be sharp enough to realise a Vacuum
suit or a pod -- or preferably both -- was the best bet he\'d have to
survive the situation.

"No pods have been ejected," Trix replied. "The hull is too energised to
detect *any* life aboard."

"Sounds like we\'re headed to the reactor, then," Darragh guessed,
getting to his feet once again and making his way towards the exit. "If
your Corti friend is going to be anywhere, it\'ll be there."

That seemed a reasonable assumption, and even if it was untrue it would
allow Adrian to quickly assess whether the cruiser could be saved or
not. In the latter case it would mean a quick dash back to Spot, or to
the nearest life--pod, before all the conduits started to burn out. In
short, nothing that he hadn\'t done before.

"Alright," he said, grabbing his shotgun. "Take your bug--zappers, in
case there\'s a fuckload of arseholes waiting for us. Just remember not
to shoot me in the fucking face again and I won\'t feel compelled to
offer a first--hand experience with having one jammed so far up your
fucking arse it knocks your teeth out. Clear?"

Darragh cleared his throat softly and made sure his gun was pointed
downwards. "Clear."

"Good," said Adrian, taking lead as they stepped out through Spot\'s
airlock. "Let\'s be quick then, you really don\'t want to be around a
fucking conduit burn--out of any size."

Darragh followed, close behind and very conscious of where he was
pointing his stun--gun. "I\'ve heard they eject plasma. Not usually many
survivors. Have you seen one, then?"

Adrian sniffed as his lips curled into a secretive smile. "Once or
twice."

"I\'ll defer to the voice of experience then," Darragh replied, stopping
as they reached the door that separated the flight deck from the rest of
the ship. Adrian had hit the button, and it wasn\'t opening.

"Shit," he said, pressing the button again. "Fuck... it\'s locked or
something. Trix, are you able to override?"

Trix answered in the negative. "Not without direct access. Usually
you\'d need to connect a wireless jack to a port, but with this level of
overload I believe that would simply destroy it."

"So how do we get in?" Darragh asked.

Adrian thought the matter over, considered what he knew about door
controls and the like, and looked down at Darragh\'s weapon. "Well,
what\'s the worst that can happen?"

"We\'re aboard a ship that\'s about to have a very bad day," Darragh
replied. "That doesn\'t seem a very wise fecking thing to say. What,
exactly, are you thinking of doing?"

"I\'m thinking I\'m going to jump start a door with your gun," Adrian
explained in brief, smashing open the panel with the butt of his shotgun
a moment later to reveal the mix of circuitry within. "And I\'ve got a
feeling that it might work."

Darragh reluctantly handed over his weapon and wisely took a big step
back. Adrian, with the help of his Earth--forged combat knife, cut
through the micro--conduits that supplied the door with enough power to
open, along with the control circuits that told it what to do. An
Irbzrkian stungun wasn\'t the most elegant tool for this particular job,
but it would either get it done or it would cook the circuitry beyond
repair.

"I\'d say there\'s a one--in--ten chance of this actually working,"
Adrian guessed as he prepared to shoot the electrics. "Or maybe a
one--in--one--hundred."

"That\'s a pretty piss--poor chance," Darragh replied, taking another
step back. "Are you really going to be holding those things while
shooting the wires?"

"The Zhadersil gave me worse zaps than this fucking thing," Adrian
replied, turning the weapon to a considerably lower power setting now
that he thought about it. What he\'d said had been true, but there was
no point in trying to re--live those particular experiences.

He pulled the trigger, gritted his teeth through the relatively mild
electrocution, and shook his fist victoriously as the door actually
opened a few inches before the control board exploded. "Looks like it\'s
our lucky day."

"We\'re not going to be able to fit through there," Darragh noted.
"Unless you can pry those doors open a wee bit more, or if you can
figure out how to lose a whole lot of fecking weight in a real hurry."

Adrian rolled his eyes, took hold of both sides of the door and began to
pry them apart with his raw strength. One litany of growled curse words
and a brow covered in sweat later he had them open far enough for them
to both move through comfortably. "The thing you have to remember,
Darragh," he said, taking deep breaths, "is that shit like this isn\'t
built to deal with humans."

"Yeah, I don\'t think I could have managed that," Darragh replied,
dubiously inspecting Adrian\'s handiwork. "But that you managed it is
the main thing. But how are we going to stop this whole crate from
exploding if we can\'t fix this \'power regulator\'?"

"We\'ll probably have to shut down the reactor," Adrian told him. "There
should be direct controls to do that on the reactor itself, unless
they\'ve been damaged as well."

That was when the lights went out, the gravity disappeared, and the air
blasted from the flight deck and out into the void. It blasted from the
doorway, too, and that was why it carried Adrian and Darragh with it out
into the black abyss.

Adrian focused on his breathing, trying to remain calm in spite of the
situation and the way that Darragh was screaming about flying off into
space. The latter, at least, he could do something about. "Darragh," he
said firmly, "shut the fuck up!"

"Shut up?!" Darragh repeated. "I\'m fecking... tumbling, through fecking
space... I think I\'ll shout just as loud as I\'d like."

"I have three arguments against that," Adrian told him. "First, that was
someone shutting down the fucking reactor, so they\'re probably still
alive in there and are working on the problem. Second, we have a ship
that is probably already coming to collect us. Third, it\'s really
fucking annoying!"

"Oh..." Darragh said, more quietly now. "So it\'s mostly good news
then?"

Adrian sighed. He wouldn\'t call it *good* news, but it was better than
what might have happened. The last time he\'d been unexpectedly hurtling
through space he\'d had his brown trousers on; it was really amazing the
sorts of things you could get used to. "Trix," he said, "where are you?"

"Coming to get you now," she replied. "Negotiating an exit was more
challenging without the automated flight deck systems. I have, by the
way, a message waiting for you."

"Was it Askit calling to apologise for jettisoning me into space?" he
asked, able to calm himself more easily now that he knew she was on her
way.

"No," she replied. "It was Chir on an all--bands request for an
emergency extraction. He\'s still on Perfection, and he\'s asking for
you."

Adrian groaned out a deep sigh. "So that means fucking everybody knows
exactly where I\'m going to be in short order?"

"Yes," Trix confirmed.

"Goodo then," he said, resigning himself to what was to come. "Let\'s
start by hurrying the fuck up so that we can get there first."

"And what about Askit?" Trix reminded him, plainly ignoring his demands
that she make any additional haste. "As you said, it was likely him who
shut down the reactor."

"If we\'re down there too long," he told her, "go make sure the little
guy is doing okay. We\'ll try and be quick, though. You get all that,
Darragh?"

"Yeah, I got it," Darragh confirmed. "I\'m just hoping you managed to
hold on to my gun."

Adrian looked at his empty hand, and frowned at it. Good news that at
least the shotgun remained tied to him, a buckle ensuring that it
didn\'t fly away in exactly this sort of situation. Bad news that the
stungun hadn\'t had the same precautions taken with it. "About that..."

‚ÅÇ

**Secret Prison**\
**Chir**

The enemy was converging on the Surgery ward, but thus far Chir had
managed to keep them out. Leaving the corpse of the Corti in the doorway
had offered enough initial discouragement for him to have time to not
only free Keffa, but to send a broadcast on absolutely every band he\'d
had access to in the hope of summoning Adrian Saunders and everybody
else.

They\'d just down the communications system following that, and he made
sure to keep trying to access it so that they would be delayed in
getting it up and running for their own purposes. Aside from that he was
fully consumed with ensuring that the more adventurous enemy soldiers
discovered why curiosity killed the Gricka.

"How are you feeling?" he asked Keffa with concern. They\'d been just
about to start operating on her when he\'d arrived and killed all of the
Corti surgeons in the room, along with anybody else who wasn\'t Keffa.
She\'d been unconscious at the time, and she was only barely out of it
now, so whatever they\'d given her must have been very strong indeed.

"N--not good, Chir..." Keffa drawled out, trying to raise herself from
where she\'d slumped to the floor and failing. "W--what happened?"

She\'d asked him that the last time he\'d checked in with her, and the
time before that. "Nothing good," he said simply, not wanting to
constantly repeat his words. He\'d spent enough time talking about it
the first time, before he\'d realised he was speaking to an empty shell.

Hopefully Adrian Saunders would actually arrive soon, and with the
knowledge of how to help Keffa, because Chir didn\'t have a clue and was
quite frankly completely screwed without some assistance. Right now
there was no chance of him even getting out of the ward, even if he were
to do the unthinkable and abandon Keffa. For the moment they were simply
preventing him from leaving, and if Chir guessed correctly they would be
preparing for the assault of the galaxy\'s most destructive human. Once
that threat had passed, or was assumed to pass, the situation for Chir
would rapidly go downhill.

But, providing Adrian Saunders did arrive, and in spite of his own guilt
or remorse, there was no guarantee of failure for Chir in this
situation. In the preferable event that Adrian Saunders were to rescue
Chir, they could work together to capture Layla. Should that not work
out, and if it were ultimately required, Chir *could* turn against his
human comrade as his would--be masters had desired. If, however, Adrian
Saunders happened to die in the attempt to rescue Chir, then once again
Chir could claim it as part of his strategy, regardless of how he\'d
have to stretch the truth to make it fit.

Even considering all this, and disregarding the noise, Chir felt relief
when the whole base thundered as though the world was exploding. Walls
shook, the lights flickered, and the roof crumbled, but there could only
be one explanation for that and it filled Chir with a faint sense of
hope that the ideal may actually come to fruition.

"Keffa," he said urgently, "you need to be ready... focus through the
drugs!"

She groaned again. "Chir... wh--what happened?"

"Adrian Saunders just arrived," Chir replied with confidence, "and our
captors are about to have a very bad day."

‚ÅÇ

**Corporate Secret Holding Pen, Perfection, Class Three World**

**Group Captain Caboth**

The whole planet was in chaos with the events at the Penitentiary
grabbing news headlines, but it was the events in the facility he
defended that had Group Captain Caboth with his hands full, and given
that Throaxians had six of them that took quite a bit of doing.

The security forces became aware of the Gaoian prisoner\'s escape far
too late, and Caboth was learning that the Gaoian species possessed a
sense of cunning and warfare that rivalled that of the best galactic
races. This one, however, was making use of those skills to cause an
enormous mess here, and not only had he slaughtered a number of
unsuspecting base personnel but he\'d managed to release the human
female and send out an unencrypted broadcast requesting help from the
near--mythical Adrian Saunders.

Needless to say, the prospect of encountering the one known as the Human
Disaster wasn\'t doing much to improve Caboth\'s mood, and the ensuing
communications lockdown was making it impossible to effectively
coordinate. Ultimately he had decided to allow the Gaoian to remain in
the Surgery ward until the situation with the Human Disaster had been
resolved, one way or the other. That meant he had left a minor force to
keep the Gaoian and the human female from leaving that ward, while the
mainstay of his forces had been called up to the surface to make a
single, powerful stand against any invaders.

To that end he had brought out the most dangerous weapons in his armory,
including the combat harnesses normally reserved for military
operations, along with anti--tank kinetic rifles, plasma guns, Irbzrkian
stunguns, and of course the handful of terrifying nerve--jammers they
had in stock. And that wasn\'t all; if worst came to worst he\'d use a
trick he\'d learned years ago on Helictor--4 from the first human he\'d
ever known of -- the same human who had first turned dropships into
artillery -- and with all of the ships outside under his remote control
he was certain that even Adrian Saunders would have no chance of escape.

Realistically, all of those things should have made him feel safe, or at
least safer, but he only found himself wondering how the Human Disaster
would set about dismantling each layer of their defense. He had to keep
reminding himself that Adrian Saunders was merely a single sapient being
and, while being exceptionally dangerous even for a human, was neither
infallible nor indestructible.

"Listen, everybody," Caboth said to his troops as they arranged
themselves in the entrance corridor. "Records of this human state that
he prefers cunning over direct action, but here we only give him one way
to come at us. We\'re set back further than normal due to the human\'s
speed, but remember that he first needs to get through the outer blast
door."

Caboth surveyed the worried faces of his soldiers. "Remember that the
human\'s priorities are to seize the escaped Gaoian and human female.
All you need to do is point your weapons in that direction and shoot
when you see him coming at you. Simple orders, everyone!"

No sooner had Caboth stopped talking than the response of his troops was
drowned out by what seemed to be the whole world coming to an end. A
sound, so very much like orbital firepower, exploded against the blast
door and mangled it before massive kinetic forces tore the door away. On
Caboth\'s datapad the vessels outside went offline in quick succession
as the roar of twisting metal continued.

When it finally ended, the silence was welcome and, at the same time,
terrifying.

Caboth took a steadying breath as he tried to recover from the horrific
experience, and shouted a hoarse order to everyone still capable of
hearing. "Get ready... he\'s coming! This is what we\'ve planned for!"

‚ÅÇ

**Some kind of secret base, Perfection, Class Three World**

**Adrian Saunders**

"Holy fecking shit," Darragh exclaimed in disbelief as they stepped out
onto the landing pad, carefully nursing his sole remaining stungun after
having made it quite clear that he wasn\'t going to be handing *this*
one over in a hurry. "You\'ve crushed those ships like a fecking paper
cup! That kind of entrance has got to have them shitting their largely
metaphorical pants."

Adrian looked over the remains of the enemy vessels -- largely a
collection of sub--light transport craft, but including a handful of
small passenger ships -- and affected nonchalance. "Spot has a lot of
power, and more than the standard kinetic generators," he explained,
honestly somewhat surprised by just how effective that had been. "It
probably wouldn\'t work quite a fucking well against a bigger ship."

"Was anybody *inside* those?" Darragh wondered as they strolled past the
first of the wreckages.

"No," Adrian said with confidence as he looked greedily at all the parts
he might have reclaimed if only he\'d had the time. The ships were
ruined, there was no doubt of that with all of the buckling and
contortion they\'d just experienced, but there would be parts he could
have pulled out of them if the Perfection Guard weren\'t on his heels.
"Well, if they were then they were hiding their life--signs, and it\'s
their own fucking fault."

"Fair \'nuff," Darragh mumbled, frowning. "How\'re we going to find Chir
in a place like this anyway?"

"Well," Adrian said, "I figured we\'d try going through that door and
see what happens."

He pointed ahead in the direction they were already going and brought a
pile of destroyed metal to Darragh\'s attention. "That\'s what happens
when you combine a well--placed coil--bolt with kinetics."

"It looks like you\'ve ripped the fecking door right off!" Darragh
observed, staring at the shredded steel. It was thick, clearly intended
to survive significant damage but nothing quite as damaging as what had
just befallen it. "But... that\'s exactly what you\'ve done, isn\'t it?"

Adrian nodded with a wicked smile. "I figure if we make enough noise,
Chir will find *us*, and we\'ll have the added bonus of having killed
all the motherfuckers between him and us. Still, best to be fucking
quick about it."

The remains of the entrance were in ruin and full of debris, but were
not impassable. If anything they offered significantly more cover than
they\'d have otherwise done, and that allowed Adrian to take up position
without making himself known and to motion to Darragh to do likewise.
This was, he figured, the most likely place that the enemy would put
their first line of defenses, and a simple peek proved him corrected.

"Shit," he hissed, ducking back behind cover before anybody noticed.
"There\'s a fucking army in there."

Darragh stared at him in disbelief, and Adrian only barely managed to
stop him before he stuck his own damned head up to get shot off. "Stay
the fuck down!"

"What\'s out there?" Darragh hissed back.

"Fucking *everything*, mate," Adrian told him. "Fucking robot suits,
plasma guns, anti--fucking--tank guns, and of course those fucking
stunguns you love so much."

Darragh frowned, like he was trying to figure out some kind of fucking
puzzle. "But... there\'s no way that even *you* could get through
something like that, right?"

"No shit," Adrian replied. "I\'m not a fucking idiot, in spite of all
evidence to the contrary."

"So what are you planning to do?" Darragh asked, still glancing towards
the vantage point where he\'d get his head shot off. "Have you got a
fecking grenade or something up your sleeve? Because I doubt there\'s a
way around them and it sounds like they\'re filling up the whole fecking
corridor."

Adrian grimaced, thinking it over for a change and coming up with a
decent answer -- maybe that was the Yoga working -- and a diabolical
grin slowly spread itself across his face. "Yeah, mate," he said in a
voice that said all it needed to about the impending fortunes of the
army set against them, "they are, and I\'ve just had a bit of an idea."

‚ÅÇ

**Corporate Secret Holding Pen, Perfection, Class Three World**

**Group Captain Caboth**

The mood was tense amongst the men; everyone was waiting for the one
moment when they\'d have a chance of facing down the Human Disaster and
actually winning. It was possible that the human known as Adrian
Saunders was *less* fearsome than his reputation suggested, but given
what Caboth had learned about the recent incident at Perfection
Penitentiary he wasn\'t willing to take the chance. Either way, the goal
was to have the human dead, and the only difference was how many of his
men would see the end of the day in making it happen.

"The human is right outside," Caboth informed his men quietly over their
personal communicator links. He didn\'t want to shout, that would tip
the human off and stop him from simply barging straight in and finding
his death, and in any case it was far easier to whisper urgently into a
microphone than it was to shout orders to a crowd. "All of you ensure
that you\'re ready to fire upon the target area as soon as he attempts
ingress!"

The plan was simple: an unsurvivable barrage of plasma, kinetics,
stunguns, and -- if absolutely necessary -- nerve jammers. Humans were
tough, but even Adrian Saunders would die if he was exposed to even half
of what Caboth had waiting for him.

The human\'s voice was the first thing to pass through the opening, a
demand of sorts for Caboth to name himself as leader, and the first
indication that the human already knew that they were there. "Hey
anal--orifices, which one of you sexual--activities is in charge?"

There was no going back now, Caboth decided; the Human Disaster knew
they were there and were waiting for him, but there was still a chance
that he could be goaded into exposing himself to deadly gunfire. Caboth
just needed to be clever enough to get Adrian Saunders that angry, which
shouldn\'t be that hard since by all reports \'angry\' was the Human
Disaster\'s default setting. "I am Group Captain Caboth," he called
back, cursing the weakness of his voice compared to the booming cadence
of the human. "You cannot hope to get past us! Run and hide, human!"

That should do it, if the reports were correct. Any moment now the Human
Disaster would spring from cover with a monstrous snarl, and earn death
for its haste. Any moment now...

"Have you got Chir there with you?" Adrian Saunders demanded instead of
leaping out and being slaughtered like he ought to have done. "Or is it
just you posterior--sexual--activities?"

Caboth puzzled that one out and frowned as he realised he and his men
were being insulted. He\'d heard of the disgusting way the Human
Disaster was said to communicate, with far too many references to
sexual--activities, but it was somewhat difficult to differentiate those
references from pointed insults being directed at him. Caboth ground his
teeth together in anger at how casually the Human Disaster chose to
insult the men who would undoubtedly kill him this day; the least he
could do was be respectful to those who would valiantly slay him. Caboth
decided that some counter--insulting was in order. "The ugly Gaoian is
in our custody, you muck--licking glom--guzzler! You will never see that
lom--grabber ever again!"

"So..." the human replied with greater uncertainty, no doubt unsettled
by the torrent of curses being hurled against him and his Gaoian
comrade. Caboth had even surprised himself with how readily the words
had sprung to mind, and some of his men looked at him in nothing short
of pure disgust. "So... *not* with you, then?"

"The filth--covered Gaoian is deep in this facility," Caboth continued,
confused as to why the Human Disaster, a being known for destroying
everything in a crazed rage, had not yet thrown itself in front of his
weapons. "I shall lay a blurn in his rations, to remind him of you."

That was sure to make the human angry! Even some of Caboth\'s own men
were stifling a retch after *that* line, and Caboth himself felt dirty
simply saying it; the prospect of having to actually *mix* a blurn in
with *food* made his stomach turn just thinking about it.

Why this wasn\'t working against the Human Disaster he wasn\'t entirely
certain, although it was *possible* that even Adrian Saunders was so
overcome with disgust that he could not bring himself to make an attack.
Was it possible that Caboth\'s own words were even more disgusting than
those of the Human Disaster?

"Nerve--jammers," he whispered into his communicator, "get into
position. He must be almost ready to strike."

"Sexual--activities Awesome," Adrian Saunders replied. "Bad day to be
you."

Bad day to be Caboth? More bravado from the Human Disaster, and besides
the way he had landed his vessel there\'d been nothing else to impress
Caboth; it was clear he was a coward and once the Nerve--Jammers were in
position he\'d surely die screaming for his--

The thing about underground facilities is the entrances are frequently
long tunnels that offer easy defense against an insurgence of troops,
and in spite of having been constructed by corporate interests rather
than military this one was no different. These corridors themselves were
always constructed to be large enough to transport goods into the
facility from the landing pad outside, and while that was significant
room for base personnel it wasn\'t exactly enormous when compared to the
bulk of the modified Hunter vessel that now appeared just outside the
entrance.

Everybody stared without comprehension. Everybody except for Caboth.

Caboth\'s species were not the most intelligent, but they were far from
stupid, and Caboth was more than clever enough to piece a few very
important facts together in the space of the two heartbeats he had left
in this world. First of all, that was the ship that had just shattered
their own vessels with massive kinetic force, and second of all there
were absolutely nowhere in this long, easily defensible corridor to hide
from a weapon like that.

The third thing, the only good news if you *could* call it good, was
that there would be absolutely no time to feel any pain when the end
came.

‚ÅÇ

**Some kind of secret base, Perfection, Class Three World**

**Darragh Houston**

The thing about Kinetic cannons is that they\'re mostly silent, and all
Darragh really heard of the whole \'small army\' situation being
resolved was a distant, and very decisive *crunch*. A brief visual
inspection revealed the entire force that had been set against them was
now crushed into a chunky paste on the far wall.

"That looks like it would have hurt," he observed distastefully, unable
to keep his eyes from the slowly oozing organic sludge that was sliding
down the wall. "Although given how quick it all happened... maybe not."

"Makes you glad you can\'t smell it though," Adrian replied as he
stepped forth into the corridor and looked about for anyone else in dire
need of a bad ending. "Tell me why they aren\'t doing this sort of thing
on the battlefield, Trix?"

"The war with the Celzi is the first major conflict in the history of
the Dominion," she replied over the communications link. "The escalation
in weaponry and strategy was progressing slowly until humanity started
accelerating it."

"Makes you wonder where it\'ll end," Darragh reflected, keeping in step
with Adrian. "Do you think we\'ll be building a \'Death Star\' any time
soon?"

"What\'s a \'Death Star\'," Trycrur asked over the link. "It sounds very
large and very deadly."

"It\'s from this... story of sorts," Darragh told her. "It\'s
essentially a fecking big sphere that can blow up planets with a giant
laser. Hopefully that\'s entirely impossible, though."

At that Adrian turned to look at him with an expression that suggested
Darragh was out of his mind, but quite worrisomely not in the way that
suggested he was talking nonsense like he usually did. "That\'d be a bit
of a fucking escalation, don\'t you think? The V\'Straki -- the
Dino--guys -- they\'d taken their war to the point where they were
wiping whole fucking planets *clean*, and they got some asteroids shoved
up their arseholes in return."

"Sounds like they had it coming, though," Darragh replied.

Adrian shook his head sadly and released a sigh. "Hard to label any side
as good in a mutually genocidal war, mate."

That was reasonable enough, and Darragh didn\'t need to look sixty--five
million years into the past to be able to see it that way; human history
was full of examples of what happened when two sides couldn\'t
co--exist. "So they had a \'Death Star\', then?" he asked. "Is that what
you used to kill the Hunters?"

"I\'m not telling you what I used to kill the Hunters, mate," he replied
grimly, "because that thing quite frankly scares the fucking shit out of
me. I set a bomb to blow the fucking thing to bits after I used it
against the Hunters, and since nobody has been destroying planets lately
I guess it worked."

Darragh didn\'t press further, doubting that Adrian would tell him or
that he\'d like the answers if he did. There was one last question he
needed to get off his chest, though, even if it didn\'t get him a reply.
"So... does that mean *you* know how to build whatever that was? Chir
and Trycrur said you were the one spending the most time looking over
that ship\'s systems, and that you had some sort of weird rapport with
the ship itself."

"Let\'s just say a lot of secrets are going to die with *me*, mate,"
Adrian answered in a flat tone that cautioned against further questions.
"My point about escalations stands. We\'ve already given these poor
fucking idiots so many ideas about how to kill each other and us, I
don\'t think they need any more help. Don\'t you think they\'ve got
their top minds looking over everything we\'ve fucking got, our weapons,
defenses and strategies?"

"Probably," Darragh admitted, finding himself somewhat discomforted by
the idea. "Unlimited access to Wikipedia and all that, it\'d only make
sense. Does that mean we\'ll be seeing more Earth--style weapons out
here?"

"It\'s inevitable, but we\'ve got the advantage of being really fucked
up so we\'re always going to come up with the more dangerous stuff,"
Adrian replied. "Fucking hooray for us."

Darragh arched an eyebrow. "Christ... bitter much?"

Adrian sighed again, as bitter as Darragh had ever known. "Just getting
really fucking tired of facing ever more dangerous weapons, mate. You
try spending as much of *your* time in fucking brown--trousers territory
and tell me if you don\'t get a bit sick of it."

They came to a final corridor, having spent their conversation moving
forward, and discovered an elevator that was coming up to meet them.
Darragh and Adrian shared a glance, primed their weapons, and pointed
them at the door.

"Maybe it\'s PTSD," Darragh suggested. "My Da\' was \'involved\' in the
Troubles, and he was always talking about having the feckin\' PTSDs.
Usually when it\'d get him out of doing something he didn\'t really want
to do."

Adrian grimaced and paused for long enough that Darragh wasn\'t sure
that he was actually going to reply. "No jokes, mate, because there\'s a
very fucking real possibility that that\'s what it is," he finally
admitted. "I never had that sort of problem over in the fucking Middle
East, but I wasn\'t exactly dodging fucking black holes or evil fucking
organisations with armies of death robots while I was there. Didn\'t
have fuck--knows--what running through my blood then, either."

The elevator tracker showed the slow progress it was making towards
them, and Darragh was beginning to feel a bit stupid standing there
waiting. "So... do you want a hug or something?"

Adrian looked at him with disapproval. "I\'m not really the hugging
type, mate..." he said, and turned back to focus on the elevator doors.
"I\'ve been doing some Yoga. It helps clear the mind, so shut up."

Darragh wasn\'t going to say anything much about that; he\'d done Yoga
in school once and had quite enjoyed the experience, but he did what he
was told and remained quiet while the elevator finished it\'s
interminable journey.

The doors slid open and, in a blind panic, Darragh pulled the trigger.
He soon processed the fact that Adrian had knocked the gun aside so that
his shot hit the wall instead, and that the elevator contained the
familiar faces of Chir and Keffa, and the less familiar features of
Keffa\'s undressed body.

Darragh\'s eyes roamed of their own free will, at least until he
realised she was either drunk or drugged and that this was no time to be
doing such thing.

"Mate," Adrian said softly, "we *really* need to sort out some proper
trousers for you quick smart."

Cheeks burning hot, Darragh cleared his throat and turned to the Gaoian
with his stungun neatly obscuring what he didn\'t want to put on
display. "Chir! It\'s good to see you\'re alive, but what\'ve they done
to Keff?"

"Some form of anaesthesia," Chir replied. "I believe she\'ll be fine,
but it is fortunate that you were still around to answer my call for
help. I imagine I have Adrian to thank for terrifying my attackers with
his brazen entrance? You have not lost your flair for the dramatic."

"You should have seen what he did to my prison," said Darragh. "Totally
destroyed."

"Few deaths, though. It was fucking precision annihilation," Adrian
protested as he helped Keffa from the elevator. She stumbled forward,
too wobbly to walk, and ended up simply being thrown over Adrian\'s
shoulder like some sort of senseless cavewoman.

Adrian simply shook his head. "What the fuck is it with naked people
today?"

"They stripped my clothes off as well," Darragh explained at Chir\'s
inquiring glance. "So far I\'m admittedly finding this planet\'s name to
be a bit of a misnomer. It\'ll be good to put it behind us."

Chir had other ideas. "We can\'t leave yet!" he declared. "Layla... she
betrayed us. She betrayed *me*! She is on the planet, and I must ensure
my cub will be safe! She has threatened to terminate it if I don\'t do
what I have told, and thus far I can\'t say that I\'ve been doing that."

Darragh began to shake his head; there wouldn\'t be long before the
Perfection Guard were here and then there\'d be a lot more fighting than
they wanted to have. "We\'ve really got to--"

Adrian cut him off. "Do you know where she is?"

"I know the building," Chir immediately replied. "I can show you where
it is on the map."

"Good enough," Adrian said. "But I think we better hurry.

‚ÅÇ

**Cundleign Hotel, Perfection, Class Three World**

**Layla**

Everything was in chaos. The streets outside the hotel were filled with
crowds of people acting in blind panic, half--deafened by the thundering
voice that few would have recognised and utterly confused about what was
going on. Unfortunately for Layla, being informed didn\'t seem to be
much of an improvement.

Then there was the broadcast that Chir had sent, and she\'d been
completely unable to contact the secret corporate site ever since. That
did not bode well for her children, and it wasn\'t looking good for her
either. There was a strong possibility that the corporation would
terminate her children over Chir\'s colossal betrayal, and it was near
certainty that the Gaoian strategist would be personally coming after
her.

If he had escaped, with or without the help of Adrian Saunders, it would
undoubtedly mean that he knew exactly where she was, and against that
sort of menace there was no choice but to flee immediately. Already she
had packed her belongings, and was readying to leave her room.

She was half--expecting to find him already in the hotel, or working his
way through the crowded streets, ready to set upon her with his male
fury. She did not expect the window in her room to suddenly explode
outwards, nor for a modified *Hunter* vessel to suddenly appear in what
she\'d assumed to be completely empty space.

The airlock opened to reveal the Gaoian she had been waiting for, along
with the heavily armed human friend she\'d asked him to betray.
Apparently, and this should have been evident from his attitude to his
own government, Chir had a very difficult time doing what he was told.

"Don\'t try and run, we\'ll only catch you," Adrian Saunders announced
bleakly. He was carrying a weapon of a type unfamiliar to Layla, but
from the way it matched him she assumed it to be Earth technology. That
meant it was intended for use on humans, and was therefore drastically
overpowered for use on her.

"You\'re coming with us, Layla," Chir told her, his voice nearly a
snarl, and even from this distance she could see that any trace of what
he\'d once felt for her had been replaced with loathing.

Maybe if she tried the truth for a change? "Chir," she said, her voice
shaking, "I had to do what they told me to do! They have my *children*!
But I am *not* carrying your child; that was also a lie."

He studied her with eyes full of burning hatred. "I cannot tell if
you\'re lying, you wretched female, but I know somebody who can."

Layla stared at them without understanding until the human answered the
unspoken question. "Like the man says, we\'ve got an appointment with a
doctor."
:::
