# S - Expectations Not Met
***Salvage***

---

**Low orbit of Vezhan Homeworld**

It had been brown trousers time from the moment Adrian had realised that
hurling himself out of a space station -- even by accident -- was a
colossal fucking mistake. The vast expanse of a planet had been right
below him, and visions of re--entry without a spaceship flashed through
his mind.

Those were not the thoughts of an optimist.

And for some fucking reason he had thought it was a good idea to start
using his broken arm. There really was no accounting for the decisions
he made while he was in his more... pragmatic state of mind.

"Is there anyone out there?" he asked, flicking his communicator link to
all registered recipients and swallowing the nerves that told him there
wasn\'t.

"Askit here," the Corti responded. "I\'ve got Jen out here with me
somewhere. Gdugnir did not reach her helmet before the explosive
decompression."

"This wasn\'t part of the plan," Jen added, sounding more than slightly
panicked, which in Adrian\'s view was more than justified. He wouldn\'t
have blamed her for being a gibbering mess, for that matter. "I\'d have
remembered if this was part of the plan! I would have voted against it!"

"Yep," Adrian said, laughing with gallows humour, "we\'re pretty fucked
right here."

"Excellent, Adrian has gone completely mad," Askit said with false
cheer. "Shall we *join* him? Let\'s all laugh in the face of *death*! HA
HA HA!"

"I suppose you\'ve got to laugh, or you\'ll cry," Jen mused, and started
to giggle crazily. "Pirate queen. Colonial Governor. Orbital debris."

"Colonial Governor?" Adrian asked, taking interest. "That\'s a new one!"

"Oh I didn\'t tell you yet!" Jen replied excitedly. "Earth want to make
my little pirate base the first human colony."

"And they made *you* the Governor?" Adrian asked. It sounded pretty
dubious.

"Ach, you\'re such a sceptic!" Jen admonished him. "Although I\'ll admit
I didn\'t think it made a lick of sense either."

"So what are you doing after this?" Adrian asked, suppressing a laugh.

"I was thinking of floating around here until I died," Askit muttered
angrily. "So far I haven\'t found anything more *exciting* to do."

"Well, you\'ll be pleased to know my calendar is entirely clear," Jen
replied, politely ignoring the Corti. "What did you have in mind?"

"I was thinking of making a trip down to the planet," Adrian said, as
though he was actually considering it. "I hear the weather\'s good.
Might be a little bit hot."

"Try being Irish," she joked, "you\'ll absolutely burn up."

It wasn\'t particularly funny, but they laughed together until they ran
out of laughs. Then they were silent.

"So this is it, then," mused Jen sadly. "Can\'t say I ever really
thought I\'d go out this way."

"I always thought somebody would shoot me," Adrian replied. "You most
recently."

She sighed. "I wasn\'t going to shoot you, Adrian..."

"I know."

Askit interrupted them. "So, primitive deathworlders, I have a joke for
you."

"We\'re a little past the joking stage," Adrian said grimly. "This is
more the \'acceptance\' stage."

"None of that," Askit said firmly, "I think you\'ll like this one."

"Fine," Jen said in resignation. "It\'s not as if you\'re going to get
another chance to tell it. Go on."

"Excellent," Askit said, sounding pleased with himself. "What\'s short,
lucky and grey, and is standing on a Celzi retrieval ship?"

Jen and Adrian were both completely silent for a moment.

"You\'re fucking shitting me," accused Jen. "You\'ve been rescued?"

Adrian twisted around to try and see where the Corti had got to, and it
took him a good few turns to spot the little ship in the distance.

"I don\'t know if I\'d call it rescued," Askit replied. "They\'ve got
guns pointed at me, but I\'d still call this a win."

---

"I maintain that this was all part of my plan," Askit told the two
humans as they were ushered into the prisoner holding pen. "Slightly
modified."

"That was a bit fu-- a bit close for my liking," Adrian replied. "Let\'s
try to avoid those sorts of plans in future."

"Desperate ones?" Askit asked. "Oh no, I enjoy watching my companions
die and coming within moments of my own death. I find it absolutely life
affirming."

Adrian frowned and didn\'t answer, knowing that this was just how the
little Corti vented his own anger and fear. The fact was all three of
them were enemies of the Celzi Alliance to a certain degree -- Jen most
of all by a country mile -- and they weren\'t in the best condition to
overpower all of the guards and steal the ship. His broken arm ached
with a sharp, throbbing pain that was getting hard to ignore.

It was a nice ship too, Adrian thought to himself, not as nice as the
Zhadersil but it didn\'t have that lethally radioactive glow, and its
reactor presumably worked. So on second thoughts it was actually much
much better.

"How are you doing, Jen?" he asked her, knowing that the answer was
somewhere between \'not good\' and \'having a nervous breakdown\'.
She\'d been through stuff that would have broken a lot of trained
servicemen, it was no surprise that she was suffering for it.

"I\'m getting there," she replied shakily, clinging to his good arm and
looking around at their new accommodation. "Just... the thing with
Margarita, and then with Gdugnir and drifting in space..."

Her voice trembled and broke, and he held her close with his good arm so
she could cry against his chest. He didn\'t move, just let her cry while
he whispered quiet reassurances to her in the hope that they might work.

She was warm against him, and damp with the sweat from the vacuum suit.
The scent of her made him heady, and his breath grew ragged as he fought
down his desire. There was a time and a place for that, and although it
did help him stop thinking about the pain, this was certainly not it.

Except she had stopped crying at some point, and had remained pressed
against him. He could feel the rise and fall of her chest against his,
her breath as ragged as his.

"I wonder how long they intend to keep us in here," Askit asked, peering
through the bars that separated the corridor from the holding pen. "I\'m
getting hungry."

Adrian ignored him. He was looking down at Jen\'s tear--streaked face,
his eyes locked with hers. Her breath was hot against him, and his
against her.

"Probably just food tablets, though," Askit mused. "That\'s all you ever
get on starships like this. No time for Hydroponics when you\'re killing
people."

Whatever else the little Corti said was drowned out in a rush of
hormones as Jen\'s hot lips pressed against his, their tongues exploring
each other while all too aware of the heat and curves of her body
pressed against his.

"God damn," he half--croaked as their lips finally parted.

She smiled at him. "God damn, to be sure."

Askit cleared his throat, notifying them that he was now standing just a
few paces away. "I think you should both know that our interrogation is
here."

---

Jennifer Delaney. Mid--twenties, space--babe pirate queen, colonial
governor, and most recently doing a top job impersonating space debris,
was annoyed at having been interrupted by something as completely
useless as an interrogation when there was kissing to be done. And other
things too, if time and privacy permitted, although at this point she\'d
settle for two minutes and a pair of hand towels.

Instead of relieving months of pent up sexual tension, they were all
sitting in the same interrogation room, surrounded by people who, by the
size of the guns they were holding, had no idea what they were.

That they were all in the same room for an *interrogation* was just the
first indicator that these aliens had no understanding of how to
properly perform one. This was exceedingly annoying to her as was
everything that didn\'t currently involve jumping onto Adrian and
picking up where they\'d left off.

"Ix--nay on the Uman--hay?" he asked her as they\'d been sat down, and
she\'d nodded. It probably wasn\'t the best of ideas to go advertising
themselves as natural born killing machines, not after what they\'d just
been through, and the injuries that had been sustained. She had to keep
reminding herself that Adrian still had a broken arm, and that it must
hurt like hell, although he certainly wasn\'t showing it.

An important looking alien finally entered the room, some sort of
bird--like assemblage of body parts with a long, crane--like neck and
downy yellow feathers.

It sat down across the table in front of them, confident in its
superiority and supreme self--dignity. The resulting scene was one of
pure ridiculousness.

She traded a look with Adrian, rolling her eyes to indicate her thoughts
on the matter. It was almost going to be *too* easy.

"I am Fleet Master Cizziz," the bird introduced himself. That was
definitely the kind of title that *sounded* impressive, and knowing the
aliens he really would be the master of a fleet. From what she\'d
established they weren\'t really the sort to invent impressive--sounding
titles that actually held no meaning at all. She wasn\'t sure why humans
did that either.

"Your names?" he asked them.

"Please allow me," Jen said, using the chance to make sure the alien
would actually understand them. He certainly seemed to, because he
turned to her with a look of what she thought must be expectation.

"I am En--Jay," she said, "and this is my partner, Drian--Ay, and of
course our son Skit--Ay."

"Your son?" Cizziz asked in confusion. "He\'s a Corti!"

"Adopted of course," Jen said, noting with internal amusement the total
look of confusion on Askit\'s face. Adrian, for his part, was
maintaining a total mask of congenial agreement. "We recovered him from
a pirate attack when he was an infant, and he\'s been with us ever
since."

"Sometimes more of a pet than a son," Adrian added. "But he tries."

Askit appeared to have given up on any resistance to the explanation,
and nodded dumbly when the Fleet Master peered at him. "Hurt brain," he
explained like a simpleton. "Now... stupid."

"A curious family," Cizziz said, clearly lost in what the hell was
suddenly going on. Most aliens didn\'t do so well when you completely
destroyed their expectations, and it looked like Cizziz was the same
way. "How... did you come to be aboard that space station?"

"We were abducted," Adrian said bluntly. "You know what the Corti are
like. It\'s all fucking anal probes with them."

Jen barely suppressed a snigger at that.

"They *are* known for their lack of... ethics," the Fleet Master said
tactfully, obviously wary of the presence of a Corti amongst his
prisoners. "What did they want with you?"

"They didn\'t get a chance to ask," Jen said. "They were boarded by...
robo--slugs, who started shooting up the place."

"Robo--slugs? You mean the Allebenellin?" Cizziz asked. "Corti often
employ them as mercenaries..."

"Maybe they decided to take control," Adrian continued. "All we know is
that the kinetic systems were destroyed and all the air went right out
of it. It was a good thing we knew the beacon code for a friendly port."

"A friendly port?" Cizziz queried. "This is the Vezhan homeworld!"

"Friendlier, then," Jen said. "They do say \'any port in a storm\',
don\'t they?"

"I\'ve never heard that expression," Cizziz said, pondering it, "but it
makes sense. Aren\'t you Dominion, though?"

"If we were Dominion, why would we flee into the safety of Celzi space?"
Jen asked. "That wouldn\'t make any sense at all! We\'re just lucky you
were on hand to save us from that deathtrap of a service vessel."

Cizziz thought about this, taking a moment to absorb it all, and still
looked completely bewildered afterwards. "I just don\'t know what to
make of it," he admitted. "But we\'ve plenty of time to figure it out.
We\'ll keep you on the ship for now -- don\'t worry, you\'ll be
well--fed -- and take you with us until the next core world on our
journey."

"Oh?" Jen asked, raising an eyebrow. "The Vezha homeworld isn\'t a core
world?"

"Significant, but not core," Cizziz said, "regardless of what *they*
would have you believe."

"What is the next core world?" Adrian asked. "We have personal concerns
that can\'t be left for too long..."

"Kyrtkl," Cizziz replied. "By way of the far reaches. We have to
investigate the significant pirate activity in the area, it\'s causing
the economy so many problems they\'re finally willing to throw some
proper soldiers at it."

"Very reassuring," Jen said joylessly. "The best news I\'ve heard all
day."

At least it might get them close to Cimbraen.


