# S - Dark Heart
***Salvage***

---

**Date Point: 3Y 9M 2D AV**\
**Aboard Spot, Vicinity of Hravin IV**\
**Adrian Saunders**\
Warpdrives made space feel small. Space was not small, not even a bit,
and was in fact so staggeringly enormous that the human brain was unable
to comprehend it. Hardly a problem for everyday life --- even if you
included what Adrian\'s everyday life had become --- but it did present
something of an issue when speeding towards an orb of diffuse colour
like the gas giant they had a heading for.

"Don\'t we have anything to help me judge the distance to this fucking
thing?" Adrian asked, thinking back to how this sort of thing had been
done in the movies. "Like some kind of black screen with a big green
circle to mark the planet and a little green triangle to mark us. Maybe
a red dot to show us where that huge fucking spaceship is sitting?"

"Something like this?" Trix replied, putting basically what he\'d
described onscreen.

"Yeah, something like that," Adrian replied. "Good job."

Somehow the awkward silence was conveyed through the speakers, carried
by a brief hesitation before Trix responded. "That\'s actually just a
static image I mocked up."

"So that\'s not a real thing then?"

"It looks really useful though," Trix added. "I can see why you\'d want
it."

Adrian sighed, rubbing his brow in frustration. "Maybe we could just get
a verbal outline of our situation then?"

"I can give you *that*," Askit volunteered, his tone already preparing
Adrian for bad news, and Askit did not fail to deliver. "We\'ve been
relying on the research station\'s sensor suite to augment our own,
that\'s how we\'ve been tracking our pursuer. I\'ve just lost the
connection to the station."

Knowing that it was probably some form of worst--case--scenario, Adrian
asked the question anyway. "What happened to it?"

"Somebody else got in and locked me out," Askit explained, eyes fixed to
his data--pad and fingers working furiously in what was undoubtedly some
struggle for computerised dominance. He stopped abruptly and snarled in
the weak kind of way that only a Corti can manage. "And now the whole
network is offline. I\'d say the enemy knew what we were doing with it."

"What about our computer systems?" Adrian asked. "If they gave you that
much trouble on the station..."

"Even by Corti\'s standards I\'m paranoid about cyber--security," Askit
replied, appearing to double--check nonetheless. His immediate frown was
indication enough that not all was well. "We\'re very lucky I am. It
looks as though several thousand access attempts are being blocked every
(minute). I\'ve just shut down all external computer access, so we\'ll
be safe."

"I do not *feel* safe!" Xayn noted. "This is a capable enemy with an
overpowering advantage in raw firepower. At any moment we might be
completely destroyed, we cannot run, and we have no means to fight
back!"

Adrian ignored him. "That\'s a lot of attempts. Has to be automated,
right?"

"That is the most likely probability," Askit replied. "But it\'s also
possible that it was a digitised intelligence like Trycrur. We\'ve never
dealt with anything like this from the Hierarchy before..."

"That is because it is *not* this Hierarchy," Xayn interjected, and
puffed up when all eyes turned to him. "I had thought it myth, nothing
more than a story... but I am certain that that ship is the vessel of
the Deceiver."

"We\'re about to be told a story, aren\'t we?" Askit asked, glancing
sidelong at Adrian. "Even though we\'re currently running for our
lives."

"It is pertinent," Xayn growled. "My father said that it was important
to understand your enemy. How do you deliver the mortal blow if you do
not know where his heart is?"

"Know thy enemy," Adrian paraphrased, not surprised that the maxim
transcended Deathworld species. "Give us the short version."

Xayn coughed and sputtered. "This is the story of the V\'Straki origin!
A long and intricate tale that, when skillfully told, transports the
listener back to the days of Yarr and Porthor! I will not diminish it by
simply abridging it!"

"Are you serious!?" Askit cried out, flabbergasted. "We\'re about to be
killed!"

It was clear that Xayn wasn\'t going to budge, so Adrian opted for
compromise. "Talk fast," he said, "and we\'ll listen while we work. Best
we can do for you, so is it good enough?"

"It\'s good enough," Xayn said with a nod. He shifted into a position he
seemed to find more suitable for storytelling and took their silence as
his cue to begin. "The tale of my people begins on V\'Strak, in a time
of bloody war between the great Thardis Maradian and the poisonous
Grotcheka, at their final battle in Coivea..."

⁂

**Date Point: Sixty--Five Million Years Ago**\
**Atop the Battlements in Coivea**\
**Thardis Maradian**\
"Die, you hateful thing," Thardis snarled, hacking his sword through the
next Grotcheka to pull itself over the battlements. It screamed as he
hit it, and recoiled only long enough to receive a second, terminal
blow. Thardis shoved it off the ladder and back over the wall, tumbling
down into the swarming legion of its fellows. The walls of Coivea had
stood for three hundred cycles and had never been broken, but with a
Grotcheka victory all but assured should they take this one last keep,
they were not holding anything back, and in spite of what encouragement
Thardis yelled to his troops, it was beginning to look as though they\'d
manage it.

"That\'s it for now, Sovereign," Uvic reported, cleaning his own blade.
He looked tired --- like the rest of them he probably hadn\'t had a
proper sleep in days --- but his determination had not wavered. "More to
come soon enough; the Grotcheka seem to love death by my sword."

"Their numbers seem endless," Thardis mused, looking again at the
roiling masses of troops below. It seemed hopeless, but if they did not
stop the Grotcheka here it would be the end of his people. "But we will
prevail. We must prevail."

"Vared promised reinforcements," Uvic reminded him. "He sent a Skylord
to vouchsafe that promise. I believe he will come."

It wasn\'t a halfday before Uvic\'s words rang true. Vared was of the
Kavendi Tor, renowned for the size and quality of its Pteradons. The
soldiers of the Tor wore light armour and rode the beasts like Thardis
rode his Three--horn. They swept across the skies and dropped flaming
packages of choking powder across the battlefield, laying thick yellow
fog that obscured the dying Grotcheka.

Thardis watched it from safety on high, knowing that it was at most a
temporary reprieve, but glad of it nonetheless. He heard the wretched
screams wither as their owners perished, and waited for silence before
turning to Uvic and the Skylord representative.

"Convey my thanks to your master," Thardis instructed the Skylord. "Let
him know that I will remember him once this war is over."

The Skylord bowed in deepest respect. "Master Vared simply honours the
ancient vows, and in any case these are Grotcheka --- no thanks are
necessary."

Thardis nodded at the words. They weren\'t true, of course --- Vared
would be expecting considerable reward for his efforts on this day ---
but deception was part of diplomacy.

"Then tell me," Thardis continued, "how are your supplies of choking
powder?"

The Skylord paused. "Strained. Master Vared hopes that our grand display
will dissuade the Grotcheka from continuing to mass their troops below.
Until it settles it also grants your men a much needed reprieve from the
fighting."

Much needed was an understatement, Thardis found himself dizzy from
fatigue whenever he was not in the thick of battle, but that limit would
have soon dissolved had the situation continued. "A worthy expenditure
then."

"We have also been in contact with the legion to the south," the Skylord
added. "Commander Akthi has diverted a third of his force towards
severing Grotcheka supply lines to this siege."

"The clawfoots," Thardis surmised, and the Skylord nodded confirmation.
Akthi\'s main forces were primarily heavy mounts and siege weapons
mounted atop club--tails, but also contained a significant number of
fast--moving clawfoot riders who would do well against supply lines. "A
good decision. With that, the Grotcheka should---"

He was interrupted by the sounds of battle, this time far closer to the
heart of the keep than he was comfortable in hearing. His hand went to
his sword, as did those of Uvic and the Skylord. He didn\'t need to wait
long to see the cause of the commotion: a swell of Grotcheka coming up
from inside the Keep itself!

"Sovereign!" Uvic cried. "They spring from within! How is that
possible?"

"It\'s simple, Uvic," Thardis replied, drawing his sword. "They\'ve come
through the tunnels."

Uvic shook his head. "Impossible. They are impassable---"

"That is also simple, Uvic," Thardis replied. "We\'ve been betrayed from
inside."

"A matter for later," said the Skylord, his blade drawn and pointed at
the advancing foe. "Best discussed over Grotcheka corpses."

⁂

**Date Point: 3Y 9M 2D AV**\
**Aboard Spot, Vicinity of Hravin IV**\
**Askit**\
"---and then the battle was once more joined!" Xayn finished grandly,
rising from his seat as he spoke the final words. He looked exultant,
clearly pleased by hearing the sound of his own voice.

"You said something about this being pertinent!?" Askit snapped. He\'d
had little to do after disconnecting the ship from external connections,
unless you counted lazily coding the display Adrian had briefly
specified, and had been forced to give the story more of his attention
than he\'d have liked.

Adrian, on the other hand, had been extremely busy as he set about
accumulating bits and pieces for some arcane purpose. He had taken a
superfluous reactor, an extra computer core, and the basic FTL drive,
and was currently assembling them with wires and some kind of grey spool
of one--sided adhesive. Adrian called it \'Duct Tape\' but had taken
pains to note that it actually didn\'t stick to ducts particularly well.

"It *is* pertinent!" Xayn insisted. "That was simply the first act!"

"How many acts are there?!" Askit demanded. "How long is this story
going to take?"

"How close are we to the planet?" Adrian asked, his attention still
focused on the mish--mash of technologies he was assembling.

"Too far," Trycrur replied bleakly. She had also been forced to spend
too much of her attention listening to the pointless story. "In absolute
terms we\'ll reach the upper atmosphere in (fifteen minutes). We will
make entry on the dark side of the planet."

"Good," Xayn replied. "The darkness will hide us."

"Our velocity will leave a trail of burning atmosphere leading straight
to us," Trycrur added. "So that is unlikely to help with that."

"Do you want to tell us what that thing is?" Askit asked Adrian, turning
his attention towards the device. He wasn\'t sure why, perhaps it was
the haphazard construction or the way everything Adrian seemed to do
caused inordinate amount of destruction, but it looked like something he
should be extremely worried about.

Adrian paused, pondering the device a moment before answering. "It\'s
sort of... a bomb."

"We can\'t go to warp, and there\'s no way we can get close enough to
use a bomb," Askit replied, though he was already getting the kind of
sinking feeling he usually experienced before something went terribly
wrong and all he could do was watch. "Can we?"

Adrian resumed his work. "If my plan works that won\'t be a problem."

"And if it doesn\'t work?" Askit pressed.

"Plan B."

Askit sighed. "If nothing else I admire your consistency. Will you be
assaulting the enemy ship from the front or the back?"

"You really need to have more faith," Adrian said, chuckling as he
turned an eye towards Xayn. "Keep telling your story, mate, it\'s good
to have something going on in the background."

Xayn nodded. "Then we return as the battle ends..."

⁂

**Date Point: Sixty--Five Million Years Ago**\
**Below the Battlements of Coivea**\
**Thardis Maradian**\
"Dead," Thardis muttered under his breath. "Every last one of them.
Dead."

It was a nice wish, but they\'d emerged from the once--secret entrance
to discover over a thousand Grotcheka waiting for their turn to go in.
They were encircled, their backs to the tunnel, but found themselves
forced to defend it against an overwhelming foe.

Uvic laughed, his breathing heavy from the deep wound in his side. The
broken end of a spear still jutted from it, wrapped in cloth torn from
its dead wielder. Most men would be dead from a wound like that, but
Uvic had not been chosen as Thardis\' protector for being like most men.

"I\'ll tell you what, Sovereign," he said, still laughing under his
breath, "I\'ll take the five hundred on the left, you take the five
hundred on the right."

"What about those left over?" Thardis enquired, a resigned smile
settling onto his own face. If he was going into the afterlife he was
going to bring as many screaming Grotcheka with him as possible.

"We share them," Uvic replied, laughing into a cough.

The Grotcheka, done with their circling, charged the pair and died by
the dozen until the world went dark and the screaming began. A mountain
of deep, sapphire blue descending from the sky and piercing the
Grotcheka with searing light.

Light that could kill; Thardis wondered if it was perhaps something like
fire, but it seemed to cut and cut cleanly. It grew in the skies until
it filled them, and then, when it hung above the tallest tower of the
keep, blazed a brilliant blue that could not have been anything of this
world.

Uvic sank to his knees, holding his side as he stared up at it in a
plain mix of terror and joy. Thardis himself followed suit, it seemed
natural to lower himself before something of this power, this magnitude,
this *obvious* divinity.

"I have come," resonated a voice from every space, thunderous yet clear
of meaning. "You may now rejoice, for I am your god and you are my
chosen people."

There was no denying the command; it was overwhelming, and issued by a
being of such obviously supreme power that it made Jokek the Sky God
look pitiful in comparison. What had Jokek ever done for them, besides
wither their crops? In a single moment of destructive fury this newcomer
had done more for Thardis\'s people than anything that had come before.

The new god was accepted, soon revealing His holy name was Dchus.
Thardis formally announced that this would be the new state religion,
and founded the new, true Church of Dchus, and it was not long before
the God's great blue citadel was seen flitting around the land, searing
out the Grotcheka infestation wherever it lay.

The land was returned to peace at last, and Dchus took an active role in
reforging the nation into a pleasing form. All of this took place over a
mere ten cycles, and by the time it reached its end Thardis was no
longer merely Sovereign but was also the head priest in the Church of
Dchus.

The path of early V\'Straki society was set to endure this way for a
thousand cycles before the world was once more swept by war.

⁂

**Date Point: 3Y 9M 2D AV**\
**Aboard Spot, Vicinity of Hravin IV**\
**Xayn**\
The story was reaching its climax, the story of an unwitnessed
confrontation between V\'Straki rebels and the Deceiver. Adrian nodded
and muttered \'yep\' every now and again to show that he was listening
with keen intent as he built his bomb from devices not commonly
attributed to explosives.

Askit, the Corti hacker, was reclining in his seat, eyes closed as he
concentrated on listening to the story. Xayn nodded appreciatively,
allowing oneself to be consumed by the tale was definitely the best way
to experience it.

"How long now?" Adrian asked, directing the question to the ship
computer--mind. By now the planet had grown in the viewscreen so as to
nearly completely fill it, and it seemed so close that you could reach
out and touch it.

"Not long," the computer--mind replied, sounding strangely tired,
possibly due to how taxing it must be to plot out a high--velocity
re--entry course into a gas giant while escaping the Deceiver. If not
for Xayn\'s retelling of the Origin story it would undoubtedly be even
more tired and stressed than it already was. "We\'ll start entering
atmosphere soon. As the atmospheric density rises I\'m going to have to
slow descent, otherwise even our over--built kinetics won\'t be capable
of resisting the pressure wave."

"Great," Adrian replied, but Xayn had enough experience to tell when a
word wasn\'t being used in a literal sense; Adrian sensibly did not
believe that this was actually great. "We\'re going to have to stop
anyway, though. Re--configure the warp drive to tighten up the bubble,
and get us down to wherever doesn\'t crush us or where we can still get
a warp field to form."

"Attempting a warp transit through a gravity well this deep would be
extremely lethal," the computer--mind replied. "But that\'s not what
you\'re planning, is it? Even if the gravity didn\'t break the field,
the enemy craft would knock us out of warp with a gravity spike."

"We won\'t need to go anywhere," Adrian replied. "We just need to make
sure we\'re not caught in the blast."

Askit looked at the collection of parts through one half--opened eye and
frowned. "Alright, let\'s take a break from storytime and you tell us
exactly how the thing that you\'re building without any explosives is
going to be explosive?"

"It is a poorly constructed warp--bomb," Xayn explained before Adrian
could reply. "My people briefly experimented with the technology before
determining that it was far too destructive and scaled it back to the
Devastator weaponry aboard the starships."

"So you\'re planning to kill that thing with radiation?" Askit asked,
looking warily at the device and pushing back into his seat as though
that small distance would help.

"That would require a regulator," Xayn replied. "The technologies
employed by my people took our scientists weeks to construct and days to
calibrate in laboratory conditions. This device has been built in (ten
minutes) by a soldier in a hurry."

They looked at Adrian for an expectant moment before he cleared his
throat awkwardly.

"Yeah..." he drawled out in his most nasal of tones, the type that
normally preceded something he didn't have a lot of confidence in. "This
is what you might call a shot in the dark."

Askit found further room in his seat to sink into. "We\'re going to die
this time, aren\'t we?"

"Gloriously!" Xayn assured him. "It is just a pity that we won\'t live
to see the look on the Deceiver\'s face as he is consumed by the
unstoppable blast of an exploding micro--cosmos!"

"Probably surprise," Askit grumbled. "Probably very surprised. I\'m glad
you\'re enjoying this."

"Where\'s the fucking optimism?" Adrian complained, going back to
reinforcing his duct--tape with further duct--tape. "There\'s a chance
we won\'t die at all."

"This is true," Xayn admitted. "I am sure that Adrian has a plan to
deliver this device to the Deciver and use the planet and a warp--pocket
to shield us from the blast."

"I was just going to throw it out the airlock," Adrian admitted. "Blow
me up a whole fucking planet and then some."

"I take back my optimism!" Xayn snapped. There was no conceivable way
that could work, even if they were using a properly made bomb. This...
incarnation of misguided optimism might not even explode, and would need
the warp drive to either fail from damage, or for the gravity well to
disintegrate the warp field. "We will definitely die. But before we go,
I will finish my story! We skip forward to the time of Zharga Maradian,
honoured descendant of Thardis..."

⁂

**Date Point: Sixty--Five Million Years Ago**\
**Temple Mount, heart of the Great City**\
**Zharga Maradian**\
Forty--three generations had passed since the arrival of the Divine One,
and the world that was home to Zharga had little in common with that of
Thardis the First. As the Divine One had bestowed marvel after marvel
upon his chosen people, the V\'Straki empire had naturally consolidated
into a massive equatorial city, with only farming and hunting
communities still outside the great hub of civilisation.

The city itself was built into a series of concentric rings based on the
affluence and influence of their citizens --- not necessarily the most
efficient style of city construction, as far as Zharga could tell ---
with the centremost being the Temple Mount, home to the Imperial Pontiff
and his Clerics, and built directly underneath the shining blue Citadel
that was home to the Divine One.

Zharga did not frequently come to the Temple Mount, his role rarely took
him further in than the middle--most ring, a far cry from the home of
his distant ancestor, but as a member of an Honoured Lineage he had the
right to travel here. Today was, after all, a day worthy of great
celebration, as evident from the murals and decorations that hung
everywhere there was room around the Holy Plaza.

The Imperial Pontiff stepped into the speaking circle at the heart of
the plaza, a space where he could speak and be heard clearly by all
members of the crowd. "Welcome, honoured guests," the Pontiff began,
puffing up with his sense of importance of both occasion and his own
person. "Today we are truly blessed by the Divine One. The latest of his
many gifts, and the first that will allow one brave individual to make
the first journey to the stars themselves!

He said it grandly, but there was nothing surprising in it. The Divine
One had made no secret about the existence of an enemy, the \'Emerald
Overlord\', nor of the existence of alien life and other worlds. It was
long known that the Divine One intended for the V\'Straki to join him in
his war against His enemy, and this was merely the latest, albeit very
impressive, step towards making that a reality.

That was the Divine One\'s plan, but it was not Zharga\'s; he was what
they called a heretic, an unbeliever in the divinity of the Divine One.
Like others in his secretive sect, he did not believe that the Divine
One was anything more than some alien masquerading as a deity. Was it
not evident from their rapidly accelerating understanding of scientific
principles and technology? Even a fool should see that if what the
Divine One said about alien life was true, then the simplest explanation
for the Divine One was that he was one of them.

And that meant that the V\'Straki were being played for fools, played to
fight another creature\'s war while it sat and watched from safety. The
Heretics had reasoned out the implications of this, and of the
inevitable results should this be allowed to proceed, and they had
determined that the time to strike was now.

The servants had already begun to distribute the drink for the toast, a
fizzy fruity beverage served in paper cups; Kuhl--Ad, the favoured drink
of the Divine One.

The Pontiff raised his own cup. "I hope you\'ll join me now for a small
drink to mark this historic moment! In a few short (hours) *I* will be
that brave soul making the first journey! I will even be meeting with
the Divine One aboard his Holy Citadel!"

Zharga did not drink; the fruity beverage was frequently laced with
euphoric drugs to help soothe the populace, and he couldn\'t afford to
be under the influence right now. Not when he had a ship to steal. He
slowly shifted towards the back of the crowd, and proceeded towards the
flight station where the ship was being stored.

It was easy. The Heresy was more widespread and deeply entrenched than
the clergy thought, with many intellectuals being members. They were the
people in control of the base, in control of the project, the people
with the power to let Zharga just walk right into the launch area and
stow himself away on the small, box--like ship.

Both the Pontiff and the Divine One were going to be in for a very big
surprise.

⁂

**Date Point: 3Y 9M 2D AV**\
**Aboard Spot, Vicinity of Hravin IV**\
**Adrian Saunders**\
Spot began to shudder as it slammed into the atmosphere, and everyone
took a brief moment to put on their vacuum suits. Adrian was confident
in his welding, but he wasn\'t going to take any chances over something
like this, and it was a little easier to turn down the volume of Xayn\'s
droning story.

"I hope we\'re not going to burn to a cinder doing this!" Askit said,
holding tight to his chair. "But if we do, I hope it\'s before he can
finish his story."

"It is pertinent!" Xayn insisted, evidently unaware that he was
espousing some weirdly twisted, vaguely Christian allegory.

"Quick question, mate," Adrian said, deciding he\'d had enough of
listening to a sermon. "Does Zharga kill the Divine One and steal the
ship?"

"That is in the end of the story!" Xayn growled. "There is so much more
to tell! For instance the part where the computer systems are suborned
by a powerful computer disease!"

"You're fucking joking? You've basically just described the plot of
fucking Independence Day..." Adrian accused, and stared at Xayn without
knowing what to do with that kind of information. Christian allegories
were one thing, but turning a Will Smith film into a religious story
starring dinosaurs was quite another. "You know, if you weren\'t... you,
I\'d say you were pulling my fucking leg!"

"\'Independence Day\'," Xayn repeated, nodding in approval. "Yes, I
suppose it could be considered that. The day we threw off the Deceiver
and established our independence!"

As usual, Askit returned the conversation to the important parts. "But
this \'Zharga\'... he did kill your Deceiver, so... who\'s chasing us?"

Xayn hesitated in his answer, and took on a thoughtful expression. "A
good point... perhaps the Emerald Overlord?"

"Oh good, so not your false \'God\', just the enemy he was completely
unable to fight on his own," Askit snapped back. "And we\'re just going
to fight him with this... this!"

He pointed an accusatory finger at the jury--rigged cosmic bomb.

"There\'s more to the plan than just that," Adrian told him, patting the
cosmic bomb gently. "Trix, how are we looking on that warp bubble?"

"Done. And we\'re coming to maximum depth," Trix replied promptly. "I
should also mention that I\'m detecting the enemy warp field above us. I
can\'t generate a gravity spike to stop it, but I should be able to slip
us into a warp field for protection. Whatever you\'re going to do, do it
now."

"Right," Adrian said, standing and drawing himself up to his full
height. "Get ready to open a communications link, and we\'ll see if they
want to talk. But first there\'s a few things I\'m going to need you all
to do."

⁂

**Orbital insertion vector near uninteresting Gas Giant, Hravin
System**\
**Tjheth, Irzht Clansman of the Eye**\
"Computer! Why isn\'t it working?" Tjheth demanded, his impatience
growing. He was close, so close, to ridding the universe of Adrian
Saunders and his troubling knowledge, but even now the human was
thwarting him. It was impossible for a ship the size of his to enter the
maelstrom without suffering significant damage, and the disintegration
field could not extend very far into the gravity well. They could not,
however, hide forever, and he had reasoned that he could simply
disintegrate the outer atmosphere until it was all gone.

"The atmospheric molecules cannot escape the gravity well once they
become unbound," the computer explained. "I predict that this will never
work."

Tjheth huffed, agitated by the total failure of his plan. "Suggestions?"

"It is a small vessel," the computer replied. "It can only remain in
that place for a limited time before running out of provisions. We can
remain cloaked and prevent them from escaping, thus defeating them
through attrition."

Tjheth didn\'t think it would go so easily; this Adrian Saunders had
already proved himself to be more trouble than some entire species, and
this level of activity would not go unnoticed by the owners of the
research station. "That will take some time. Too much time."

"There is an incoming contact," the computer reported. "From the target
vessel."

"Surrendering no doubt," Tjheth said, returning to his seat. "There\'s
no way we can let him survive, but this will all go much faster if I can
trick him out of that planet. Besides, I\'m interested to see this
\'Human Disaster\' for myself."

"We do have imagery that will sate your curiosity," the computer
reminded him. "I could prevent the human from corrupting you by handling
this in your stead."

"I doubt I will be corrupted by *this* creature," Tjheth replied,
suppressing his excitement at finally being able to interact with
anybody or anything beyond the computer, even if he was going to have to
end the conversation prematurely. "It\'s hideous, all pale and soft like
an egg. Put it through and translate."

Three faces appeared on screen, each housed within the helmet of a
vacuum--suit. There was the large--eyed underdeveloped grey face of the
Corti who served as Adrian Saunders\'s right hand. There was some kind
of lizard--creature that the computer was unable to produce data on ---
somehow Adrian Saunders had discovered an hitherto unknown species?! ---
and finally there was Adrian Saunders himself, holding an assemblage of
technology wrapped up in grey plastic like it was supposed to be
important.

"Excellent, another procreating bird--lizard--thing," Adrian Saunders
greeted him. "It was good of you to answer the procreation communication
link."

"What in the name of the God Emperor is he talking about?!" Tjheth
demanded of the computer. "Are you interpreting this correctly?"

"Interpretation is within an acceptable five percent margin of error,"
the computer replied. "He appears to be fond of colloquialisms."

"Doesn\'t he know those don\'t translate well?!" Tjheth asked.

"Upon historical analysis, it would appear that he doesn\'t care," the
computer replied. "I will continue translating."

"This is normally the part where the villain gives his procreation
exposition," Adrian Saunders continued, "shortly followed by some sort
of altercation that ends with me beating the fecal matter out of you."

Tjheth blinked. "Is that... some sort of threat?"

The computer beeped. "Analysis indicates a forty--percent likelihood
that it was a threat. Fifty--percent likelihood that it was a statement
of fact. Ten--percent likelihood that it was both."

"What do you procreating think?" Adrian Saunders snapped.

"He talks about procreating a lot..." Tjheth noted, addressing the
computer. "Does he want to mate with me? That\'s disgusting."

Adrian Saunders glared at him.

"Are you translating that?!" Tjheth asked the computer.

"You ordered me to translate," the computer replied. "Would you like me
to translate only what my detailed personality analysis of you indicates
you would want me to translate?"

Tjheth hesitated, thinking about that for a moment, then nodded sharply.
"Yes."

"This," Adrian Saunders said, hefting the device, "is the very bad end
to a very bad day. Care to guess what it is?"

"Visual analysis indicates technology consistent with a Creation
Engine," the computer supplied helpfully. "Haphazard construction, more
likely to explode spectacularly than produce useful power. Most likely
use: bomb."

"It\'s some kind of haphazardly constructed super--bomb," Tjheth quickly
paraphrased, wanting it to display his raw intellect early on so that
the human would know he was no match. His words caught up with him a
moment later. "Wait..."

"I\'m about to flip the procreating switch, and chuck it out the
procreating airlock, so that it blows up the whole procreating planet
and the both of us with it," Adrian Saunders continued, the computer
interpreting his bared teeth to have a fifty--percent split between joy
and pure malice. "What do you think of that?"

"Why is he telling the enemy our plan?" the Corti mumbled, inaudible for
Tjheth but loud enough for the computer to hear and interpret. "Also,
this is an awful plan."

"Computer, what are our options?" Tjheth asked, starting to feel
frantic. "What will even happen if he does that?"

"Outcome is unknown, high chance of extreme destruction in local space.
It does not look like the human is bluffing, and we are unable to
approach to prevent detonation, we have no option but to withdraw," the
computer replied. "This has, however, confirmed that the human known as
Adrian Saunders is capable of constructing such devices."

"You\'re recommending we *retreat*?" Tjheth asked, incredulous. "And let
him free into the galaxy with that... device?"

Tjheth looked back up at the viewscreen and noticed that both the device
and the lizardman were absent. "Where... where did it go?"

"Airlock," Adrian Saunders replied simply, his lip curled ever so
slightly and one eyebrow half--raised. "I wonder what will happen next."

The screen went dark: it appeared that Adrian Saunders had disconnected.

The computer beeped again. "Scans indicate the target vessel is rising
very rapidly from the planet, it is engaging gravity spikes and our
disintegration field is down. I have detected a small warp field inside
the planet, it appears that he is attempting to use a star--ship drive
to produce the required spatial envelope."

"That won\'t work," Tjheth replied. "The field will break apart and
distribute sporadic bursts of energy all over the star system. We\'ll be
safe, and he\'ll be dead."

"Incorrect," the computer contradicted. "The gravity well will degrade
the field externally. Alternatively the device itself will malfunction
and the drive will perform a safe shutdown."

Tjheth realised he\'d at some point gotten to his feet, and began to
pace. "Get us out of here!"

"I have already predicted this response and have undertaken orbital exit
vectors," the computer replied. "Target vessel is continuing to lay down
gravity spikes and is emerging from the atmosphere beyond the horizon. I
have attempted to employ probes as missiles, but the target vessel is
outpacing them."

The computer helpfully illustrated this on the viewscreen with a set of
colourful, yet informative, shapes. Tjheth stopped pacing for long
enough to study it. "How long before the explosion?"

"Unknown," said the computer. "Too many variables. There is a high risk
that this ship will not survive, please proceed to the nearest escape
pod."

Tjheth looked at the various coloured shapes once more, nodded numbly,
and proceeded to do as he was told. This was for the best, the scout
ship would be unlikely to survive but even if it did it would not be as
quick to leave the location as an escape pod. He followed the flashing
lights to the closest one, a smooth, white capsule intended to hold one
individual in stasis.

"I will employ ship kinetics to rapidly accelerate the pod once stasis
has engaged," the computer informed him as he stepped inside. "This
vessel will rejoin you once escape and any repairs are complete. May the
God Emperor watch over you."

"God Emperor watch over you, computer," Tjheth replied, and then the
escape pod systems engaged.

⁂

**Date Point: 3Y 9M 2D AV**\
**Aboard Spot, Vicinity of Hravin IV**\
**Adrian Saunders**\
Adrian returned to the bridge after shoving the Abrogator shell out of
the airlock. It was as sad end for the robot that had served as Trix\'s
body, but today it would serve a more important function as a basic
sensor satellite that would let them know what was about to hit them
before it became a problem.

"I have just detected an object near the projected location of the enemy
vessel," Trix reported. "Accelerating very fast. My guess is it was an
escape pod, but it\'s not going our way."

That was good news at least, if they were fleeing their massively
overpowered vessel then it meant they hadn\'t been able to move it fast
enough and had accepted it as a loss. It was a big loss, too, and
whoever that enemy had been would no longer be so much of a threat. At
least not for a while.

"Their gravity spike is still engaged as well," Askit added. "It looks
like they want to make this as hard as possible for us."

"Trajectory puts us to pass the research moon in (two minutes)," Trix
informed them. "I am adjusting our flight path to ensure we are in its
shadow once the bomb goes off."

Adrian flicked the display to show the rear view, still filled by the
vast gas giant. Two shining dots stood out against its deep green;
missiles, or something else? "There\'s something following us."

"Nothing to worry about, they\'re far behind and they\'re not catching
up," Trix assured him. "It seems that Keffa was incorrect when she
wondered if you were compensating for something with all this power."

Adrian stared at the console, and not for the first time found himself
reflecting that glaring at an inanimate object just wasn\'t the same. He
cleared his throat. "A: I\'m not fucking compensating for anything. B:
Even if I was, it still saved our arses."

Shadows fell away from the planet as the whole thing began to light up,
a brilliant green glow that spread across the surface while a halo of
white light surrounded it. The view was mesmerising, something that
Adrian doubted he\'d ever forget, but lasted only a moment before the
atmosphere sheared away to be replaced by an inferno.

The whole ship jolted, tipping forward and to the left and sending
everyone scrambling for the nearest thing to hold on to. In Adrian\'s
case that was nothing, and he slammed into the nearest wall. He coughed
as the wind was knocked out of him. "Fucking hell!"

"What in the void was that?!" Askit cried out, demanding it of anyone
able to provide an answer.

"That was a gravity wave," Trix replied. "Kinetic systems are
compensating heavily. The good news is that I am no longer detecting a
gravity spike that will prevent us from generating a warp field."

"The bad news being that the gravitational flux will handle it instead,"
Xayn surmised, shaking his head. "How much mass has been generated?"

Trix sighed. "Hard to say, the atomic, sub--atomic, and annihilatory
reactions are still happening. We\'d all be dead if this ship wasn't so
heavily over--engineered. As it stands, we have a short window to do
something before we\'re consumed by the heart of a new star."

"Thank you for this experience," Askit said dryly.

"You\'re fucking welcome," Adrian replied, looking at the group. "But
how about some kind of rough idea?"

"A rough idea? Mass equivalent to a millionth of the galactic core is
currently swirling around the insides of that planet." Trix explained.
"It is fluctuating, however, with a downward trend."

They all looked at the viewscreen, now showing a sputtering orb of
brilliant light. It was slowly expanding, but only slowly. As far as
Adrian could recall, a galactic core was pretty fucking enormous and
even a millionth of it should be a lot more than he was seeing here.
"Shouldn\'t it be bigger?"

"I\'ve made you a picture just for this," Trix replied, and put a
colourful image of various circles on the screen. A thick, brilliant
green circle was clearly the planet, but some distance inside of it
there was a small black dot.

No need for further explanation than that, as far as Adrian was
concerned, and every reason to get out of there as quickly as possible.
"There\'s a black hole in the middle of it."

"And it is preventing the near light--speed explosion that might
otherwise take place," Trix continued, "But there still *is* an
explosion, and once it frees itself of the gravity well it will hit us
within moments. What would you like to do about that?"

Adrian ran a hand through his hair, desperately trying to come up with
an idea. He had no desire to encounter another singularity, especially
not one that had a giant explosion. "Alright, what\'s the go with
generating a warp field in this mess?"

"Impossible," replied Trix, her response immediate. "The gravitational
ripples are too extreme."

"And we will not be able to outrun the shockwave," Xayn chimed in,
adding his own two cents. "There is no way to survive such raw power!
Adrian, I am in awe of this incredible explosion, but you now see the
reason my people employed regulators."

"Well, this has all turned out well," Askit complained. "I\'m glad we
blew up a whole planet just to stop a gravity spike. At least we\'ll die
in a really interesting way."

"Gravity spike..." Adrian repeated, an idea coming to him in a flash.
"Maybe that's it! Trix, are the gravity waves predictable, and can the
spike be used to counter them?"

Trix was silent for a long moment, but when she answered the relief in
her voice was clear. "Close enough for our purposes. I\'m recalibrating
it now."

"And how long before the explosion hits us?" Askit asked. "Oh wait, I
have it here... about (half a second) longer than the recalibration
process."

Starting as a low grunt, Xayn began to laugh. "Fantastic! This is even
better than the stories my father told me, and we have even defeated a
false god! When we get out of here, we will celebrate with a feast, and
perhaps I will finish the story of my people!"

Askit looked between the two of them. "I can hardly wait."

"Look, it\'s starting to expand," Adrian noted, pointing out the changes
in the brilliant orb. The research moon which had presumably provided
some measure of protection against the energies in play now disappeared
into the light. "And there goes the research station."

"Expansion is accelerating," Askit replied. "We\'ve also just lost the
Abrogator--probe, but its readings indicate that the gravity well has
significantly depleted the explosive force, so we shouldn\'t destroy
more than this star system."

"I suppose that\'s good to know," Adrian replied. He already had enough
of a reputation for vandalising starships and spacestations, and the
more damage he caused here the more likely it was that the list of
criminal charges would expand to include major celestial bodies. He
doubted that he\'d ever be safe again if that kind of story started
getting around. "We probably shouldn\'t tell anyone about this."

"Yeah," Askit agreed, "what\'s the going price on a planet now? It\'s
got to be more than you can afford, especially considering you still
don\'t have any money."

"By this point I think I\'m just running some kind of shitty tab,"
Adrian joked, forcing good humour as the white sphere began to fill the
display. It was getting much, much closer, and they all started watching
the count--down. It occurred to him that this was not looking like he'd
count it amongst his *best* ideas.

A half--second before the explosion hit, the drive kicked in and... cut
out again, but the glowing orb of death was much further away.

"We just gave ourselves some time," Trix explained. "The gravity waves
are different here, and I\'ll need to recalibrate for each. We\'re going
to have to do this in stages."

"So we\'re going to bunny--hop our way to safety," Adrian paraphrased.
"Are we out of the woods, though?"

"Adrian, space is not typically forested," Xayn advised him. "It is
usually nothing at all. Hence the name: Space."

"Oh yes," Askit replied, "I\'m sure he was talking about starting a
lucrative space--timber industry, and not on getting out of here!
Honestly, is it really that hard to guess what he\'s saying from
context?"

He sighed and shook his head. "To answer your question, Adrian, I think
we\'ll be fine. This is just going to take a little while, but we should
still be able to beat Chir to the rendezvous."

"Then it seems I have plenty of time to finish my story," Xayn replied.
"Allow me to start at the beginning."

Adrian forced a yawn. "Sorry mate, I\'m pretty tired from all this
nearly--dying. Going to have to go into it another time. What do you
reckon, Askit?"

Yawning as well, something that Corti did not naturally do, Askit made a
great show of just how thoroughly exhausted he was. "Can barely keep my
eyes open."

Xayn nodded. "Yes, that is a good idea. We don\'t know when the enemy
may next strike, so we should be well--rested. I shall monitor the
sensors in case of approaching enemies."

⁂

**Date Point: 3Y 9M 4D AV**\
**The Amber Radiance, Mercenary Vessel**\
**Laphor Metmin**\
The loss of a research station was a small thing, but as far as Laphor
could determine there had been no particular reason for it and that
warranted a second look. There was nothing interesting about it, unless
you were a scientist, and it was out of the way and rarely visited, so
it was exactly the sort of place that someone would want to stop for a
breather if they were being hunted down by everyone in the galaxy.

"Are you certain about this, Captain?" Six--Skulls Zripob had asked when
they\'d first set off. He hadn\'t wanted them to waste time chasing
after false leads, but had also been insistent about moving on a soon as
possible.

"I\'m not certain at all when it comes to the movements of Adrian
Saunders and his group," Laphor replied honestly. "But if I was wanting
to hide somewhere, however briefly, I\'d pick a place like this.
There\'s absolutely nothing in that system that should cause a research
station to just stop providing telemetry."

The Chehnasho warrior had been satisfied with the answer, or was at
least satisfied enough to allow them to see where her hunch took them.
They had gone in quietly, not wanting to reveal themselves before they
were ready, intent on finding out the facts before anything else.

What they discovered was a star system in ruin.

Her crew reported the dire news. "Hravin Four is *gone*. Hravin itself
is doomed. There\'s a super--massive singularity drawing everything in.
There are signs of an incredible explosion dissipating into the void,
and the entire area is filled with nebulonic gasses."

A cold knot of dread filled her belly. "How... how is that even
possible? Are we *trapped* here?"

The crewman indicated that they were thankfully not. "Had we not been
cautious, we would not be able to escape. At this distance the gravity
well is shallow and stable, and we can leave."

Even the normally indifferent Zripob seemed to be concerned by this
news. "This... this has to be *him*. Who else would be so reckless?"

Laphor looked at him, wondering if he was so obsessed that he might
attribute anything and everything to Adrian Saunders. "With all due
respect, I don\'t see how a human, even one as destructive as Adrian
Saunders, could produce something like this."

Zripob didn\'t seem swayed. "Then who else? The Dominion would not test
something like this in their own space, and if the Celzi were behind it
then they could have easily chosen a more populated area to destroy. The
Hunters would not do this, that is not how they think, and the... well,
there\'s nobody who would profit from the destruction of this place."

"Then how did Adrian Saunders profit?" Laphor asked. As far as she could
see there wasn't any way to make money by destroying an entire star
system unless you intended to use it as a display of absolutely
overwhelming power. But at this level it was the sort of thing used to
sway governments, to terrify species, or to utterly destroy them.

"I don\'t know," Zripob admitted. "But this kind of thing is too
significant to overlook. He needs to be stopped, Captain Metmin."

That was obvious, but Laphor didn\'t see how her little ship could even
begin to confront someone capable of turning a planet into a
singularity. "And you imagine that he could even survive doing... that?"

"I don\'t doubt that he could," Zripob replied, his words very ominous.
"But if we intend to face this threat, we need more information. Set a
course back to Perfection, we\'re going to pay another visit to our
information broker."

Laphor did so gladly; as far as she was concerned the sooner they were
away from that ruined place the better.


