# S - Heat
***Salvage***

---

**Shopping Trolley**

It was amazing how awkward silence could get in so little time when it
was just the two of you and neither of you was particularly doing
anything. Sure, Adrian kept his eyes on the console, but he was acutely
aware of Jen sitting in the seat nearby. He wasn\'t even really looking
at the console, just focusing as hard as he could on not staring at
*her*.

He really *had* intended that she come out with him so she could learn,
or at least that had been part of it. If he ever ran out of cunning or
luck, she\'d need to know what she could eat apart from those awful food
tablets. He still had yet to discover any sort of replacement for tomato
sauce, and he\'d been finding all sorts of foods that could have
benefits greatly from being smothered in it.

That was assuming, of course, that his lack of cunning or luck did not
extend his fate to her. He did not like the idea of that possibility
much, and that was partly why he had decided to get the Dominion to back
him and not simply scream at the universe and tear it all down.

He really started to worry about himself when he got too
self--analytical. Probably for good reason.

"So," she said, clearly trying to break the silence, "have you done a
lot of hunting?"

"Some," he said. "I grew up in a little place called Mildura, I doubt
you\'d have heard of it. It\'s pretty far from anywhere, but there\'s a
lot of farms and we\'d sometimes go do some shooting. Rabbits and foxes,
mainly."

"Your da and you?" she asked. She was pushing a bit far for his liking,
but she did actually seem interested so this time he decided against
silence. The last thing they needed at that moment was another awkward
silence.

"My real dad died," he said. "Before I was born. He was a soldier like
me, though. That\'s why I joined up. After that my mum married again,
and my step--dad seemed alright at first, but he never took me shooting;
that was all with my mates."

He glanced over at her to see her frowning. "No need to look so
worried," he said with a reassuring, "all that\'s a long time ago now,
and you can\'t miss what you never knew."

She was still frowning. "Can I ask you a personal question?"

"It\'s gotten pretty personal already," he said. "Ask, but I might not
answer."

"Alright," she agreed. "Is your step--dad the reason why you don\'t care
about returning to Earth?"

He snorted a bitter laugh, he couldn\'t help it. "No," he said,
"although I don\'t feel any need to see that particular arsehole, he got
diagnosed with early--onset Alzheimers a long time back. Doesn\'t know
who anybody is anymore."

"That\'s awful," Jen said, aghast.

Adrian shrugged. "Means he\'s not worth hating anymore. Maybe it\'s
karma? Maybe it\'s just shitty luck. Honestly I don\'t even think about
him much, anymore."

"Then why?" Jen asked again.

"I don\'t want to answer that question," he said, then turned to look at
her with his full attention. "Please don\'t ask me again."

"Sorry," she said, apologising immediately.

He sighed. "Look... no, I\'m sorry. I didn\'t mean to be rude. It\'s
just that I\'m not proud of some things, and the reason behind that is
one of them."

"If you ever want to talk about it..."

He shook his head sadly. "I won\'t. Some things don\'t get better if you
share them. Some wounds only heal if you can forget about them."

"I\'ve made this awkward," she lamented as it grew quiet again.

He laughed. "As long as we can keep it from being awkward *and* silent."

"Well," she said, "why don\'t we talk about me?"

"Please!" he said, looking at her with a wry grin. "You\'re like an open
book!"

She had the decency to look insulted. "Oh? You think you know all about
me then?"

"I can probably guess a fair bit from what you\'ve told me so far," he
said. "Five brothers, dad who owns a bar and shot a stray cat once. City
girl who works in IT, was doing well enough to have bought her own home,
and keeps a cat, dog and some fish when they survive her. It doesn\'t
bespeak an exciting life."

"I\'ll have you know my life was plenty exciting!" she replied
indignantly, then paused with greater uncertainty. "You remembered all
of that?"

Adrian quickly returned his eyes to the console that wasn\'t doing
anything in front of him. "Yeah... well, I have a good memory."

"Right, well, I bet I could tell you something surprising about myself,"
she said, then grew thoughtful.

"Not coming up with anything?" he asked with a wicked grin.

"Shut up you!" she replied with a glare. "It\'s because you said I was
boring!"

He tilted his head a fraction in a half shrug. "I never said you were
*boring*."

The ship chose that time to exit warp into low orbit of Affrag. "And
that was excellent timing from the ship," Adrian said with a grin.

"Oh, you don\'t get off that easy," Jen told him. "There\'s still plenty
of time to talk about this before we land."

---

**Zhadersil**

"I don\'t understand what\'s so difficult about this request," Trycrur
said, arguing with suppliers over the comm link in her office. "It\'s
very straightforward! If you can\'t do it, just send me the basic
components and I\'ll enlist the help of someone who can!"

"What we haven\'t been able to figure out, Officer Trycrur," the
hardware supplier replied, "is why a ship would require this kind of
quantity of mining equipment. Detonators and explosives aren\'t much use
aboard a starship, in fact they might be dangerous. That\'s why they\'re
a restricted item."

Trycrur hissed softly in frustration. "Well, *unrestrict* them. Or are
you telling me that it\'s actually going to be easier to steal this
stuff from the Celzi than buy it from *you*?"

"These aren\'t my rules, Officer Trycrur," the supplier protested. "I
must comply with Dominion law."

"How do I get these, then?" she asked. "And let\'s pretend that I\'m in
a hurry."

"You would need to be registered as a mining company," the supplier
explained. "The rest of the stuff, including the actual detonators, is
no problem, I can send it over on the next shipment if you still want
it."

She sighed. "Do it, I\'ll see about getting registered as a mining
company. Do you know how long that normally takes?"

"Usually several (months)," the supplier told her. "You might have the
connections to fast track it, but I don\'t. I\'ll set aside the
explosives for you for about a (week) in case a miracle happens."

"Thanks for your help," Trycrur had said as she\'d terminated the link.

She turned back to the plans she\'d written out, based on a combination
of Earth tactics and Dominion technology. Right now she was working on
\'missiles\' that would be compatible with the Zhadersil\'s launching
mechanisms. Adrian had explained the concept to her after she\'d queried
what they were for, and now that she considered it she realised she was
about to ruin space warfare for everyone.

"Well," she said ruefully, "maybe it\'ll usher in a new age of peace?"

Chir coughed, alerting her to his presence by scaring the daylights out
of her.

"Didn\'t see me here?" he asked good naturedly, standing in the doorway.
"Sounded like an intense conversation."

"Apparently you can\'t get explosives without being a registered mining
company," she complained. "And becoming a registered mining company may
take several months."

"The woes of the engineer," Chir said, "never the right parts. Is there
something I can do to help?"

"Can you get me (two hundred kilos) of Undlfrx?" she asked him
unconfidently. "Because that would be a good start."

"They use that on asteroid mines, don\'t they?" he asked. "I\'m sure Gao
purchased a large amount to kickstart mining in our own system."

"I don\'t know where they use it, just that it\'s \'too dangerous to be
on starships\'."

"Well..." he said, thoughtfully. "I\'m sure it wouldn\'t take much
effort to hop into a Hunter vessel and go steal a load from some Celzi
miners. We *are* \'Privateers\' now."

"I was just being sarcastic about that," Trycrur replied. "I didn\'t
mean to actually do it."

"I\'ll have a look into it," Chir told her. "Maybe it *is* something we
could do fairly easily. We probably wouldn\'t even need Adrian, since he
and Jen have gone down to Affrag to gather more food to cover their
gluttony."

"If it\'s easy," Trycrur said slowly and emphatically. "Only if it\'s
easy. And while you do that I\'ll start filling in forms to turn us into
a mining company."

---

**Irbzrk Orbital Factory**

Grznk watched the Zhadersil from the station\'s most important
restaurant, a tall structure that overlooked the facilities around it
and provided lodging along with sustenance for the more important
travelers passing through.

Or at least that had been the original intention; the war with the Celzi
had scared off any important travelers from arriving in significant
numbers, and as a result the facility had had to lower their demographic
to a less impressive client√®le.

"I suppose *this* is the thanks I get for actually being competent," he
lamented to his meal. He was alone here, no longer assigned to the Itrz
-- Rklkrk had maintained her position there, thankfully -- and ever
since the Itrz had left dock he hadn\'t had much of anyone to speak to.

He\'d hardly touched his meal. This seat was well positioned to observe
the vast bulk of the Zhadersil, although it was at least partially
visible from everywhere on the station, and he wanted to be better
familiar with the place he would be \'volunteering\' to play doctor. He
would eventually have to rejoin them, but while the will of the
Directorate was absolute, he could at least delay doing so until the
ship was close to leaving. It wasn\'t in the *spirit* of their order,
but it was technically obedient, which was even better.

It wasn\'t all bad, at least. If you didn\'t count there being two
humans on board, people who had already killed an unknown quantity of
Corti along with vastly more people -- soldiers mainly -- with entirely
psychotic military tactics. From his briefing with the Directorate,
they\'d even managed to kill a whole Celzi cruiser, and force another
one into surrendering.

So it was probably *safer* than any other place that contained humans.
Grznk knew from his abduction that they were also at least good to their
word, or had been in his case. He also knew that the human had a history
of being... unkind, when he discovered treachery. Was being asked to
report his activities to the Directorate actually treachery, though? He
thought it might come uncomfortably close to the line.

"Let\'s see," he said, nibbling on his meal as he opened his data pad
again to the list of scratched plans. "If I was a psychotic
mass--murderer, what would stop me from killing the handsome and
intelligent Corti doctor upon discovering he was feeding information to
the Directorate?"

He tapped the edge of the device absently. \'Not getting caught\' was of
course ideal but it wasn\'t much of a plan for when everything
inevitably turned to crap.

"I could have an escape plan ready, I suppose," he mused, with further
nibbling on his sub--par, and by now nearly cold meal. "But that would
suggest that it has any chance of working, and that it had little chance
of being discovered..."

"Maybe," he said, "I\'m approaching this from the wrong perspective...
the cool, precise logic of the Corti mind seems ill equipped to deal
with such irrational creatures."

He turned over to the waiter who was hovering nearby, not having any
other guests to serve. He was a Vzk\'tk, and possessed a limited
intellect that may allow him to construe an answer where a finely tuned
Corti mind could not. "You there," he said, "more nkl juice, and while
you\'re at it I\'ve got a problem you may be able to solve."

---

**Affrag**

"One short atmospheric entry later," Adrian said as he opened the
airlock, "and we\'ve got ourselves a tropical island paradise."

He had done his best to locate a small strip of land outside of the
singular continent that held almost all of Affrag\'s landmass, and it
was far enough away from that landmass to have been undergone a separate
evolutionary process. It was small enough that it shouldn\'t contain
many exceedingly dangerous animals, either, but he wasn\'t going to take
any chances on that.

He stepped onto the gangway and was immediately hit by a rush of warm,
humid air that reminded him of summer in Darwin. "Maybe a little too
tropical," he admitted. "I\'ve never been to the islands here before,
figured we might be able to find something interesting to eat."

Jen stepped onto the gangway alongside him. "Phew, I\'ve never been to
anywhere this hot before. The air feels thick!"

"It\'s heavy humidity," he said. "On Earth it normally gets better as
night takes over, but I couldn\'t say what happens here."

"It\'s beautiful, though," she said, looking out towards the apparently
endless blue--green sea. "We\'re probably the only people to have ever
seen this view."

"It\'s likely," he said. "This is a Class Eleven world, a death world
according to the Dominion. But Earth is a Class Twelve, so you know...
grain of salt."

"If I\'d known you were taking me to an island paradise, I would have
gotten some swimming gear made," she told him. "I haven\'t been to a
proper beach in years!"

Adrian did his best to put the picture of Jen in a bikini out of his
mind so that he could actually reply to that. "No swimming," he said,
remembering the oceans around Australia. "You\'re Irish, so you don\'t
think of the sea as unsafe."

"Well there\'s sharks I suppose," she admitted.

"And jellyfish, and stonefish, and crocs, and any number of other things
that will basically kill you in a hurry," he replied. "Don\'t trust the
water."

He was satisfied that she was now looking at the sea with a healthy
sense of caution. "Sorry, I didn\'t mean to spoil it for you."

"No," she said, "you\'re right. I wasn\'t thinking of any of those
things. I guess that coming from the most deadly continent on Earth must
prepare you a little better for the dangers of other worlds."

"I\'d be lying if I said it didn\'t help," he said with half a shrug.
"Mind you, even though I made sure the ozone layer is in good nick,
being out in this sun makes me want to go find a bottle of sunscreen."

She laughed at that. "I hadn\'t even thought of sunburn! I suppose I
must seem a wee bit sheltered after all?"

"A wee bit," he said with a grin. "Now, I think it\'s time to teach you
how to shoot."

---

Jennifer Delaney. Mid--twenties, wishing she\'d dressed lighter for the
tropical heat, and firing an alien--made rifle at the alien
approximation of a stack of tin cans.

Adrian had presented her with her very own space--rifle, apparently a
smaller, better developed version of his own. He described it as being
about a thousand times more deadly than almost anything she\'d come
across in the galaxy, provided she wasn\'t on Earth, but that for the
most part it could be used for hunting. He had even provided her with a
box of small, pointed metal slugs that she did not yet need to use. Not
while practicing on the alien tin--cans anyway.

She hadn\'t ever really used a gun before, and Adrian had to show her
how to hold it, how to stand, and how to aim. This had required him to
stand very close indeed, with his hands on her and his head next to hers
to help with the aiming part of things. That had been so distracting
that at first she hadn\'t managed to hit the tin--cans at all, but soon
she was missing them on purpose so that he\'d continue to help her aim.
At least he was patient and didn\'t seem to mind.

They must have been there for hours, getting her to the point where she
could no longer believably fake incompetence, and the sun had passed to
mid--afternoon before Adrian seemed satisfied with her shooting.

"Let\'s talk about hunting, then," he said, wiping the sweat from his
brow onto his well muscled, but equally sweaty arms. "The animals here
don\'t know to fear us. That helps you get closer without them running
away, but predators won\'t know to fear you either. They\'ll just see
you as prey, like everything else."

"Don\'t you normally go hunting with the hover stuff?" Jen asked him.
"Although it doesn\'t look like you\'ve got one of *those* for me."

"I didn\'t have time to get one of *those* made," he replied. "And if it
comes to that I\'ll be looking to get something proper made for us both.
Today we\'ll go looking for some easy prey to get you used to the hunt,
then I\'ll show you the messier bit of the job."

Great, she thought, a day full of being pressed up against Adrian
followed by an evening of shooting animals and cutting them apart. It
was going to be difficult to make *that* romantic in any way.

"It\'s a pity we can\'t just enjoy the island," she said wistfully.
"Since we\'re here."

He frowned, looking around in various directions. "I suppose we *could*
do that for a while. It\'s not like we\'ve got anything to get back to
except waiting for other people to do their jobs."

"Good," she said perkily, glad that he had taken her suggestion and even
gladder that she\'d now be able to have a romantic walk instead of
killing things. "You have to appreciate the little things."

---

Raw terror. That was the kind of emotion that Adrian was experiencing on
this hiking adventure. He could barely keep his mind off of Jen after
spending so long with his hands on her to correct her aim -- she\'d
taken far longer than most people do to pick it up -- and the weather
was hot enough to make them sweat heavily; she didn\'t yet seem to have
realised what it had done to her top, and this wasn\'t the sort of thing
he could easily inform her of after it being the case for so long, or
having spent a fair amount of time viewing.

Add to that the fact that he was wandering through an unknown ecosystem
with unknown dangers, and it seemed like there were too many things his
mind was trying to keep track of at the same time. At least they\'d
brought their guns, so if something *did* happen they\'d be well--placed
to deal with it.

He almost wished that something *would* happen, to force him to think
about something he was actually good at. He was terrible at this kind of
thing, so bad that it was it was a miracle he\'d ever gotten married,
and so bad that it hadn\'t really been a surprise when it had ended.

"Are you alright?" she asked him as they reached the summit of the
nearest high ground. The path they\'d taken had been forested with a
jungle, but not the dense, horrible variety you found on Earth. It had
provided shade from he sun, but an incalculable number of avenues from
which something may attack them. "You seem tense."

"It\'s just the jungle," he lied. "There\'s a lot of stuff I might need
to look out for."

"I haven\'t seen anything I\'d call dangerous," she said. "It\'s just a
really nice jungle, and the view from here is great!"

The view *was* good, with the sun getting lower in the sky and filling
the horizon with pinks, oranges and reds, but Adrian was fixated on
another view altogether. "Yeah," he said truthfully, "it\'s a good
view."

She noticed him looking and blushed. "I meant the sunset."

"I didn\'t," he replied, his mouth saying the words without waiting for
his mind to tell him not to. His mind had proved itself complete crap at
this and as far as he was concerned it needed to take a back seat for a
change and let other parts take over.

They stared at each other for what seemed ages.

"Adrian," Jen began, her voice wavering.

The data pad in Adrian\'s pocket beeped a warning. Something had been
detected by the Shopping Trolley\'s sensors.

They paused. It beeped again, and this time he slid it from his pocket
and glanced at it. Something *had* been detected. That something was
Hunters.


