# S - Point Zero
***Salvage***

---

**Space Station in geosynchronous orbit of Cavaras, Corti Directorate
Core World**

There was blood everywhere, spilling out to flow into empty space like
an undulating river in air. Except of course there was no air, and the
blood was crystalising almost as soon as it escaped flesh, the water
therein boiling away into the void.

But she was still alive to witness it, because she wasn\'t the one whose
blood was rushing out. That had belonged to Margarita, the small corpse
still attached to Jen\'s back. It was hard to imagine that such a small
body could hold so much blood, but no further proof than this was
required. Or wanted, for that matter.

The last thing Jen had heard over the communicator link was a scream of
horror being sucked away with the air that made it possible. A scream
Jen was sure she would remember until the moment she died, even if that
moment was only seconds away.

The impact of the blow had sent Jen tumbling forward, spinning down the
corridor in wild, out of control twists and turns that had sprayed
Margarita\'s blood in all directions. Even with her much improved
reflexes it had taken her valuable time to counter the spin, and the
machine was upon her once more as she did.

Except this time it wasn\'t invisible. This time it was rendered in the
crimson of Margarita\'s blood. A last, sanguine gift from the small
Spaniard.

It was like a huge mechanical spider, red and angry. Its limbs looked
fearsomely sharp -- she recognized the distinctive addition of fusion
blade technology to the wicked edge -- and it floated freely under the
aid of kinetic technology. It was a horror made real, and Jen thought
that if you\'d told her it ran on nightmare fuel, she would have
believed you.

But she didn\'t hesitate; she picked out somewhere important looking and
the bullets did the rest. The spiderbot recoiled as a half dozen rounds
tore through its core, spasming wildly until the power left it and
revealed the gleaming metal once more.

Jen took a moment to correct herself once more, countering the effects
of the recoil and catching her trembling breath.

She removed Margarita\'s corpse, fighting against the wave of nausea the
that threatened to fill her helmet and whispered a quick prayer while
doing her best to avoid a second glimpse of entrails spreading into the
void.

She glanced everywhere else though. She had no idea how many of those
things there were out there. How would she see them coming?

How would *Adrian* see them coming?

She was opening the communicator link almost before she had finished the
thought.

"Adrian?!" she called out fearfully. "Adrian are you there?"

"Jen? I\'m here." he replied after half a moment, his voice full of
worry. "What\'s wrong?"

Relief flooded her at the sound of his voice. "Adrian," she said
quickly, feeling the urgency of getting the warning out. "There are
spiderbots! Invisible spiderbots! One got Margarita. Oh god, it tore her
open, Adrian!"

She was babbling, letting the horror of it spill from her as desperate
words. There was silence on the other side, silence for too long, and
she hesitated. "Adrian?"

"I\'m here," he said again, but now his voice was hard, as it had
sounded that time on the island when the Hunters had come for them. Jen
had remembered that voice, had hated the memory of it, but right now she
welcomed it. If that was what was needed to save them -- that darkness
that lurked behind his eyes -- she damn well welcomed it.

"Keep moving forward," he said, his tone flat and dead. "Get to the
service vessel, you can leave the rest to me."

"Will you be alright," she asked, ashamed of needing to *rely* on him
again, but terrified of facing more of those *things*.

There was a heavy pause on the line, and then he disconnected, leaving
her feeling sick.

He hadn\'t been willing to lie.

---

Adrian had felt the Soldier take him the moment Jen announced
Margarita\'s death, and he hadn\'t resisted. He needed the cold logic,
the cool head and the iron will the Soldier commanded; he didn\'t trust
Adrian the Man to do whatever needed to be done. There was a line right
down the middle of him, but whatever mistake either made, the Man
endured it for both.

That was not a problem the Soldier needed to think about, however, and
therefore he didn\'t. The Soldier only thought of winning. He began by
cutting his arm free from its sling, careful not to puncture the suit.
In zero gravity he could use the arm freely if he could ignore the pain
-- the Soldier could -- and the ability to use both hands provided
enough incentive when his life was on the line.

He took the blade by his good arm, figuring a break in the bone would
make its use impossible, and gripped the submachine gun lightly by the
other.

Then he started to move again, his eyes unfocused and thereby watching
all.

"Askit," he said, connecting to the link. "How many breaches in total?"

"Four," Askit replied. "Jen just described the machines to me. I believe
only one could fit in each, so three remain."

"Guide me to them," Adrian told him.

Askit hesitated. "Are you sure?"

Adrian stared dully ahead, watching the apparent emptiness of the
corridor for any sign it was otherwise. "I\'m sure."

Askit didn\'t argue further, and began issuing instructions on which
corridors to use. The machines were most likely hunting him, as they
hadn\'t yet started attacking the service vessel. That was fine, of
course, since if they knew where he was he didn\'t need to go searching.

But he could make preparations.

Askit told him when Jen finally made it back to the vessel, covered with
frozen blood and wet with fear. Deep within, Adrian the Man was pleased
to hear it. The Soldier was pleased too; it was one thing less for the
machines to hunt.

They didn\'t reach him before his traps were laid. He had taken up
residence in a bend in the corridor, filling the space either way with
quickly rotating fusion blades. It was a gamble, the machines *might*
pluck them from their places and turn them against him, but from what he
had seen the aliens themselves were so disinclined to think along those
lines that he would have been amazing to find their machines do
otherwise.

Indeed, the first of them that came for him tried to push its way
through and mostly destroyed itself in the process. A single burst of
gunfire sent it the rest of the way, and he spent the next few moments
snatching up wayward fusion blades and returning them to their
positions.

He doubted the next would be destroyed so easily. He doubted the aliens
that built things like *this* were the type to allow all of them to fall
into the same trap.

He licked his lips; they\'d gone dry with anticipation.

The next one to arrive proved him right. Unlike its predecessor it
didn\'t try to push through the whirling blades. Instead it struck them
down with its own; he learned then that they would drop their cloak to
attack, whether by design or by power constraints that prevented a
machine of its size from powering kinetics, its fusion blades and the
cloaking system all at the same time.

That was good to know, as was the fact that they couldn\'t move fast
enough to avoid being annihilated under a hail of bullets. It seemed as
though they were lightly built, intended as stealthy assassins rather
than heavy combat machines. Adrian doubted they were audible even if
there *was* atmosphere to hear by, and set against small, unsuspecting
groups they would be lethal.

A pity for them they were set against him.

---

**Undisclosed Location, Cavaras, Corti Directorate Core World**

Zero looked at the live feed and he swallowed. Hard.

The first prototype had done well, hunting down a pair of the humans and
managing to kill one -- he couldn\'t be sure which -- before the other
managed to destroy it somehow. He still hadn\'t figured out the cause of
the failure before another reached the human who was cowering in a
corridor.

The second prototype had registered massive damage before its signal cut
out, and Zero studied the feed ferociously for what had gone wrong. Had
the cloaking system failed, and allowed the human to destroy the
prototype from a distance? No notifications of that.

Could humans see through cloaking technology?! That was an alarming
prospect, if true, but there\'d never been any sign of it as a natural
ability. Perhaps the Cruezzir in their systems had somehow--

Zero saw the reason. The prototype had encountered debris; the prototype
had attempted to pass through, and the prototype had failed. It
wouldn\'t be the first time the humans had used weapons disguised as
debris to achieve their goals, and it seemed likely that the same had
happened here.

There was no need to worry; the next prototype would adapt.

The next prototype failed even faster, its signal vanishing as it
attempted to swat away the debris with its fusion blades.

Zero hissed air out between his teeth in frustration. Doing that would
have required the cloaking system deactivate, and the human would have
been quick to take the initiative.

There was only one prototype left, and if it was destroyed then Zero
would be destroyed along with it. He had burned far too much of his
credit to recover without absolute success, and he couldn\'t leave his
life in the hands of a useless machine.

He connected himself to the system directly, and *became* the machine.
His vision expanded to take on the multi--sensor suite built into each
prototype, and a virtual cortex connected him to all eight of its limbs.

It was as though Zero was aboard the station, and the sensor suite
revealed it to him in more detail than he\'d ever seen it in on his
infrequent visits.

But there was only one thing Zero cared to see. One thing that stood --
not in cowardice, but in wait -- between two walls of spinning plasma
blades.

The human was cunning.

Zero was cunning too. He watched, and waited, and thought until he had a
plan. A most *cunning* plan.

It would work, he thought with a predatory eagerness. Oh yes, the plan
would most *definitely* work.

---

Askit had never been so on edge. He was keeping one eye on the sensors
that told him that Adrian was still alive, and the other on the scanners
that told him they weren\'t expecting any more company. Somewhere
between the two he kept an eye on the low--grade sensor data the service
vessel was supplying about *itself*, and the results were at least
consistent if not encouraging.

They were all tense, and handling it in different ways. Askit threw
himself into his work, with as many simultaneous distractions as
possible to stop him from just sitting there and thinking about the
situation they were all in; Gdugnir sat and stared at her instruments in
something approaching a meditative state, and Jen -- most annoyingly --
paced back and forth while she pondered the situation, and kept glancing
over at Askit like he was some form of oracle.

"Yes, he\'s still alive!" Askit snapped most recently. "And no, he\'s
not responding to my questions with anything helpful."

"But he took down another two, yes?" Jen said. "So that just leaves
one."

"One that should have reached him by now," Askit replied, having been
considering this fact in the back of his mind as the rest focused on
other things. "If it was going to attack, it should already have done
so."

Jen frowned, biting her lower lip as she did in what Askit had come to
recognise as \'troubled thought\'. "How long will his air last?"

"Not long enough to stand there forever," he replied. "But long enough
for an army of backup to arrive. We don\'t have an indefinite amount of
time."

"We need to get the wormhole drive started," Jen said. "I... suppose I
could go?"

"I believe that if I were to let you out of that door," Askit said
dryly, "that Adrian would actually kill me."

"Then he has to do it," she replied. "And he has to do it *now*."

Askit sighed in frustration, and turned back to the console to re--open
the pointless communicator link.

"Adrian, this is Askit," he said unnecessarily. "Jen is demanding that
she goes to activate the wormhole drive if you don\'t get moving."

"No," Adrian replied flatly.

"The longer you stay there the more time the authorities on the surface
have to pull a real defence together," Askit argued. "And *you* don\'t
have an endless supply of air.

There was silence on the line for a while. "Fine, I\'ll be a few
minutes."

The communicator link ended, and Adrian\'s signal began to move.

"I\'ll put him onto the main display," he told Jen. "We can both keep an
eye on him that way."

She nodded her thanks, and he turned back to his own console, tapping it
with an impatient finger. None of this seemed to sit right with him, and
he was waiting for that fateful moment when the signal ended.

He had no idea what he would do if that happened, and he doubted Jen
would be in much of a condition to go out and finish the job, even if
she managed to avoid the same fate.

But nothing interrupted the progress of the dot indicating Adrian\'s
progress. There was no pause in his movement, save for when he stopped
just outside the purple area that indicated the service vessel the rest
of them were on, and then another when he finally reached the room
containing the wormhole drive.

"He got there!" Jen said in relief. "Maybe the other spiderbot just
didn\'t work?"

Askit frowned, but kept his doubts to himself. There was no way that was
the case, not with all that had been thrown at them as they\'d been
making their escape, and the knot of dread in his chest just grew
tighter.

Even when the jackpoint lit up, there was no change in that cold lump of
worry, and it was only his detachment that allowed him to focus on his
work.

"We\'re in," he said, glancing over his shoulder to where Jen stood
behind him. "I\'ve just uploaded the parameters to the wormhole drive,
so now we just need to wait."

And of course to hope that things didn\'t turn to shit for a change. A
Corti could dream.

"Adrian," he said, reactivating the communicator link, "the Drive is
powering up now. Start making your way back, but keep watch out for
ambushes. I have a bad feeling."

"There should have been four," came the terse reply, "but I still
haven\'t seen any sign of it, and I\'m not lucky enough for it to have
fucked off somewhere."

"None of us are that lucky," Askit agreed, "but the sequence will
complete within (ten seconds). I\'d expect a fast response from the
Celzi, so we have to move quickly."

"And hope this works," Jen added, crossing both her fingers in a gesture
humans apparently used as some sort of \'luck\' creator.

"And hope this works," Askit repeated, white--knuckling the console as
the wormhole activated. He\'d never been through one before, and
although he\'d heard that the process produced no sensations whatsoever,
and was an exceedingly mature technology, he still felt unnerved by the
idea of being simultaneously destroyed and then reconstructed halfway
across the galaxy.

But again, nothing went wrong, and the navigation systems repeatedly
beeped as they tried to re--align themselves to the new location and
failed each time. An orbital service vessel only required local
starcharts, after all, and there was no way it was going to have them
for *Celzi* space.

"We\'re through," Gdugnir told them, exhaling the breath she\'d
apparently been holding. "We just dropped into low orbit around Vezha.
Several Alliance cruisers are already hitting us with hard scans.
Coilguns will be next."

Askit nodded. "Get ready to go as soon as--"

The service vessel\'s damage sensor gained a new alert. He read it, and
then he read it again, and when he was done re--reading it Askit looked
up at the others with his eyes widening in slowly dawning horror.
"Helmets on! Now!"

That was when the gravity went away...

---

**Aratas, Celzi Heavy Cruiser, low orbit of Vezhan Homeworld**

Fleet Master Cizziz had been as surprised as anyone when the Dominion
space station had dropped into low orbit after the sudden appearance of
a wormhole. The Celzi Alliance had taken pains to alter their beacon
codes so that that sort of thing couldn\'t be done, and in the early
days of the war had used the unmodified enemy beacons to their
advantage.

If this was proof that the Dominion had access to their codes, that was
very bad news, and Cizziz had not wasted any time in ordering heavy
bombardment of the space station.

It was half--destroyed before the scans were being called to his
attention. Zero atmosphere, zero kinetic control, zero attacks made. By
all observable evidence, a dead space station had just pushed its way
through a wormhole to get here.

"This makes no sense," he muttered to himself, twisting his long,
crane--like neck around to see all of the data. "Even as a Dominion
trick this is bizarre! Sensor tech, what is this minor expulsion of
atmosphere?"

"A disintegrating orbital service vessel, sir,\' the Sensor tech
responded. "I was just scanning it, *and* what came out with it."

Cizziz focused on *that* information. Three vacuum suited figures, two
unknown bipeds -- one of which was armed with a fusion blade -- and a
Corti, an unknown configuration of ruined machinery, and a dead
Chehnasho in an unhelmeted vacuum suit.

Normally he would have let the void have them, leaving them to drift or
to re--enter atmosphere unprotected, but there was a mystery here and
they may have the answers.

"Send a retrieval craft to collect them," he ordered. "And ready them
for interrogation. I\'m interested in what they have to say."

---

**Undisclosed Location, Cavaras, Corti Directorate Core World**

Zero was satisfied with the report. It should be enough to keep the
Hierarchy from ending his life, even if he\'d be working to rebuild what
he\'d spent for the rest of his cycles.

But the humans were dead. That was the most important part, and before
it had been destroyed by unknown factors, the final prototype had used
the station quantum transmitter to send the message that its programmed
task was complete.

The prototype had waited until the wormhole had transported them before
destroying the engine of the service vessel and killing their kinetic
drive. They wouldn\'t be going anywhere as the Celzi fleet began their
bombardment.

Everything would be destroyed; the station, the service vessel, the
ultra--harnesses and the prototypes.

The humans.

And Zero could walk away in the comfort of knowing that he had
personally ended the two humans actively involved in an effort to bring
the war to a close before the Hierarchy was ready. Two humans who had
humiliated the low--level efforts of the Hierarchy to carry out its
grand agenda.

The Hunters could continue their Grand Hunt; what better reason to keep
Earth sealed away then for its own good? And by the time the Hunters
could be *dealt with*, they could be allowed to fall upon the Earth and
scour it clean.

And then, with nobody left to oppose them, the stage would be set for
the Hierarchy to move on to the next step in their grand agenda.

And as always, they would continue to rule from the shadows. The true
founders of the Corti Directorate, and the secret rulers of the
Interspecies Dominion.


