# S - Pushing Forward
***Salvage***

---

**Aratas, Celzi Heavy Cruiser**

"This did not turn out as we had planned," Hrbrd had prefaced during his
meeting with the Fleet Master. Cizziz had called him to his office once
the incident had come to its end, and had thus far exercised extreme
restraint in refraining from launching himself at the Corti defector
with the intention of tearing him to shreds. It was, after all,
Cizziz\'s vessel, and nobody would criticise an officer of his standing
for killing a Corti of all things.

But instead of that, he sat across from the ex--Councillor, absolutely
furious and contemplating the conversation that was to come. The Corti
had agreed to cooperate, but not unreservedly, and thus far he was
walking a thin line that would see him thrown out of an airlock if he
dared to cross it. Cizziz tapped his desk slowly and ominously with a
single taloned finger, letting the Corti observe that simple motion
until his point was made.

"I believe that what you meant to say just then," Cizziz observed icily,
"was that it did not turn out as *you* had planned, since I distinctly
recall my most recent interactions with you involving a plan to withdraw
my men so that En--Jay could deal with the problem herself."

"Unfortunately the situation quickly escalated following that
conversation," Hrbrd replied, not even having the decency to pretend to
be ashamed of himself. "Action had to be taken immediately."

"So immediate that it seems you felt the need to break into my ship\'s
systems rather than go through me?" Cizziz snapped in return. That was
the single detail that infuriated him above all others; he may be down a
human and a life pod, but the process of achieving that unfortunate
outcome had involved the Corti bypassing his authority and acting upon
that insane scheme. That was an insult to his position as Fleet Master,
and it was one over which Cizziz would have gladly executed the Corti if
it hadn\'t been for the interesting information he could yield, along
with the fact that they\'d accidentally discovered a new way, albeit
unconventional way of combating humans.

"You should be glad that I am not the sort of man to punish another for
*your* actions, Councillor," Cizziz continued. "How long, exactly, did
you imagine that a human could survive in less than one--third atmo? The
length of time that one lasted would have seen everything else long
dead."

"And that is troubling," said Hrbrd, "precisely because it should have
seen *him* dead as well. The human is as lucky as he is resilient."

"You didn\'t believe he\'d survive?" Cizziz asked, completely
incredulous. He had known that Corti were cruel and practical, but it
was another thing to be confronted by it.

"I had not intended for his stay in those conditions to stretch quite so
long," Hrbrd replied. "Had you not ejected me from your systems..."

"My technicians are not in the habit of allowing unknown connections
free reign, Hrbrd," Cizziz declared. "They are not to blame for *your*
mistakes!"

"I did not mean to suggest that they were," Hrbrd conceded. "Merely that
I had not intended anybody to *die*. I certainly did not expect our
mutual friend to display some sort of passive survival mechanism."

"My doctors report incredibly high levels of Cruezzir in his blood
stream," Cizziz said. "Little wonder that he survived when his
drug--saturated body slipped into some form of cellular suspension.
Where did he get so much Cruezzir anyway? He certainly didn\'t bring it
aboard."

"In a way he did," Hrbrd revealed. "His body manufactures it. I know,
when I first learned of it I was as surprised as you."

Cizziz pondered this startling revelation, trying to imagine the
implications and failing miserably. "Do all humans..."

"No," Hrbrd answered. "That at least is good news. Humans are dangerous
enough without them all being like *him*. One is *useful*, more would
be... unfortunate."

"And yet you couldn\'t have known that he would even survive your plan,"
Cizziz mused, returning to the issue at hand. "You took quite the risk."

The Corti shrugged. "What is life without risk?"

"Peaceful," Cizziz coldly suggested. "But I take your meaning. If not
for the risk that they took I would be down *five* vessels instead of
only one."

The one that had been lost had been the smallest of the vessels in the
fleet, unable to push back against the threat before it had reached
their reactor and pushed it to overload along all conduits. That wasn\'t
a tactic that Cizziz had ever before observed, nor one he could imagined
up himself, but a conversation with his engineers told him that either
the reactor interfaces had been hacked or the hostile robot had had all
the correct access codes, which was more than troubling if it was true.

"Perhaps then you might see your way to finding our misplaced human?"
Hrbrd asked, his temerity remarkable even for a Corti, and their lack of
emotions tended to lead them as a matter of course into boldness as well
as shamelessness.

"That was already amongst my intentions," Cizziz replied. "It will need
to *wait* for the coming encounter to be resolved."

That at least seemed to surprise the Corti. "I had not been informed of
such a thing?"

Cizziz glared his reproach at him. "Believe it or not, but I don\'t
usually find that apprising enemy defectors of all my plans is a tactic
that pays off! I discussed this matter with the humans, and the recent
attack was merely an unfortunate, and costly, diversion from it."

"May I know the details of this encounter?" Hrbrd asked, and Cizziz
noticed that he now held an unusual air of caution, and that was a touch
suspicious.

"A vessel of unknown configuration, but it looks like it might be of
Corti origin," Cizziz told him, watching the defector carefully for any
reaction.

He got it; Hrbrd immediately assumed an impassive expression, far too
quickly to be natural.

"You know something," Cizziz said. It wasn\'t a question, but it held a
command. *Tell me what you know or I will throw your sorry monochrome
hide out of an airlock.*

"I *may*," Hrbrd agreed. "Are you familiar with the conspiracy theories
surrounding \'The Heirarchy\'?"

"Assume that I am not," Cizziz replied. He couldn\'t be expected to know
every piece of nonsense in the galaxy, nor did he want to. Even from the
name this was already sounding like the sort of thing talked about by
people with too much time and too little sense.

"I will be brief, then," Hrbrd said. "They are real. They operate in
secret and have technology *years* ahead of the rest of us, and they
have a vested interest in keeping this war going."

Cizziz found this unlikely, and it sounded crazy as the defector had
said, but in spite of his other problems tbe Corti did not seem to be
insane. It called for a measured response. "That is a considerable
claim," he said. "Do you have proof?"

"The proof was in those robots that wreaked havoc on your ships," Hrbrd
replied. "Had you not had *humans* on board, you would have lost all
vessels to the attack, yes? Don\'t bother to deny it, because we *both*
know it is true."

Cizziz considered this, and was forced to concede that it was true; his
response to the attack had been to follow the normal tactics for
repelling boarders. That had not worked at all, and had sent a lot of
good soldiers to their deaths before the humans had intervened. "If this
vessel *is* this Hierarchy of yours, then can you at least tell me what
we can expect during our encounter?"

Hrbrd\'s expression turned grim. "I believe that you can expect defeat."

---

Adrian was getting really fucking tired of being put through hell. It
seemed like forever since he\'d managed to catch a goddamned break and
if he was honest with himself it was getting somewhat depressing. There
were only so many times you could kick a man when he was down before he
wouldn\'t get back up again, and he was beginning to wonder how many
more he had left in him.

Not many. Not many at all.

He had awoken just an hour ago with no memory of going to sleep and a
head that throbbed like somebody had spent some time bashing it in. His
sudden return to the land of the living had plainly scared the shit out
of the doctors who\'d thought him sedated, although they\'d calmed down
soon enough after he\'d finished explaining that he didn\'t want to kill
them, only some god damned answers.

He hadn\'t much cared for the answers he\'d gotten. They\'d told him
that it seemed as though the fumes of the fire suppressant acted as a
sort of psycho--active neurotoxin when introduced to human biology.
Adrian recalled the effects being radical and terrifying, and the
sensation of being guided by violent emotions that he\'d known were not
his own but had acted along with anyway.

Memories gave out around the time he\'d carved his way through the door
and into that fucking robot, going completely fucking berko on it until
it was little more than a pile of molten scrap. The feeling of it had
been glorious at the time, and from what he was learning of what had
followed it seemed like that was the high note to end on; for once he
didn\'t need to remember everything turning to shit.

Askit had arrived only a short time after the doctors had retreated back
to their analysis of whatever samples they\'d taken from him, and the
Corti hacker hadn\'t waited for the offer before taking a seat beside
the bed and studying him.

"You look like shit," he finally said with his usual candour. "I\'m not
a doctor but I think you should try looking less like that."

Adrian laughed, although his lungs still ached and even a chuckle caused
him pain; laughing was agony, but he did it anyway. "Jesus Christ! Your
bedside manner is fucking atrocious, mate!"

The little Corti shrugged. "Yes, well... I did warn you that I wasn\'t a
doctor. Have they filled you in on all the details?"

"You mean about the suppressant, or about Jen?" Adrian asked with a
resigned sigh. "Because it\'s yes on both counts."

Askit grimaced. "I couldn\'t have imagined that the suppressant would
have that effect on you, Adrian. If I\'d known--"

"Then we probably would have fucked up in some other way," Adrian
finished. "It\'s not on you, mate. Nobody could have imagined it\'d do
that."

"We have a line on where Jen\'s gone at least," Askit said. "The Aratas
marked her warp vector as bound for Cimbrean, but I\'ve been listening
in on Hrbrd\'s meeting with Cizziz and it seems like they want to pick a
fight with a Heirarchy ship before turning around to pick her up."

"Listening in?" Adrian asked, raising an eyebrow. As far as he was aware
there wasn\'t really any surveillance to speak of in the wider galaxy,
which made humans look like security--conscious nutcases by comparison.
"How\'d you manage that trick?"

"Corti developed translators communicate with each other," Askit
replied. "I just modified mine slightly to receive from theirs."

Adrian stared at him, completely surprised of the inventiveness of the
approach. "No shit? They won\'t know?"

"I seem to be the only one doing it," Askit replied. "They won\'t even
consider the possibility. I used that method to get away with several
cases of identity theft prior to my... incarceration. The investigations
got nowhere."

"Well, that\'s a better offer than I expected to get," Adrian mused.
"Normally I\'d need to do something fucking stupid or drastic -- or both
-- to be able to go after her."

He thought he might enjoy a future where he managed to avoid doing
stupid or drastic things; he was beginning to forget a time when he
hadn\'t been doing them almost exclusively. When was the last time he\'d
made a rational decision that had actually got him ahead in the game?

Too long ago, and he was feeling it. It had to stop, and if it didn\'t
he\'d just end up dead for certain with nothing more to show for it. He
still sharply recalled his fear of losing Jen, and of his desire to
protect and live on with her; those were not feelings that had left with
the poison, and given the overall sorry state of him he doubted that it
was mere lust. He doubted that he\'d have been able to rise to the
occasion even if she had been there and was tearing his trousers off.

"What I would like to know," he said, his gaze unambiguously focusing on
Askit, "is whose fucking suggestion is was to suck all of the air out."

The little Corti had the decency to look guilty, and cleared his throat
awkwardly. "To be fair, the plan did work... mostly. And I only reduced
atmosphere to thirty percent."

Closing his eyes, Adrian sighed. There wasn\'t enough energy in him for
anger or for much of anything for that matter. "It was a fucking awful
plan," he said, "but I don\'t need to guess who inspired it. I\'m just
glad that nobody died."

"Hrbrd and Cizziz say that you *should* have died," Askit said. "One of
the techs shut me out of the system when he noticed irregularities in
the atmosphere."

"Her--bird and Big Bird need to learn to mind their own business," he
grumbled. "It\'s probably more *fun stuff* from this crap in my blood.
It made my organs bigger, who knows what else it\'s fucking done?"

"It let you survive," Askit informed him. "Even with it you would
probably have died after too much longer."

"Fucking cheery today, aren\'t you?" Adrian asked bitterly. "Why don\'t
you--"

The crude suggestion was interrupted by the arrival of the Corti
defector and the Fleet Master, clearly finished with their meeting and
wanting to see how their remaining human was doing.

"You look well," Big Bird lied. "Have they informed you as to what
happened?"

"I already figured it out when it was too late to do anything about it,"
Adrian replied. "I don\'t remember much after that, but Askit and others
have been filling me in."

"I\'m afraid your mate has absconded," Big Bird said. "We will be
turning around to pick her up, but we cannot abandon our mission to
intercept this unknown vessel. Hrbrd informs me that you have some
insight into fighting those who might be aboard."

Adrian turned his attention to Hrbrd. "The Hierarchy."

"That is my belief," Hrbrd replied grimly. "The Fleet Master will not
follow my suggestion to give up his chase."

"Fuck," Adrian groaned. "I\'m tired of getting kicked around. Can\'t we
just find some Hunters to kill instead?"

Big Bird actually clucked. "Foolish bravery!"

"Not so much," Hrbrd replied. "This is the human they fear above all
others, after all. You may know him better as Adrian Saunders."

All of the sounds stopped at the mention of the name; Big Bird just
stared, and the doctors slowly rose to follow suit. There was nothing
but an awed silence, and Adrian wondered exactly what it was that they
had heard about him.

"This is a little uncomfortable," he said, trying to ease the tension,
but it didn\'t work.

"Why is *he* aboard *my* vessel?" Big Bird asked, although his question
didn\'t seem to be targeted at anyone. The Fleet Master seemed
bewildered with a mixture of terror and excitement.

"You pulled him out of space," Hrbrd reminded him. "So in a sense, the
man who scares the most terrible race in the galaxy now owes you a
favour."

"Thanks for weighing in, Her--bird," Adrian said sarcastically.

The Fleet Master continued to regard Adrian for longer than he felt was
strictly necessary, and seemed to come to some important decision.

"Well, *Adrian Saunders*, let me inform you that this fleet has (three
hours) before it makes contact with that unknown vessel," Big Bird said,
sounding strangely official as he did so; that was quite the achievement
for a large yellow bird. "I want you to be ready to begin boarding
action as we agreed."

"You\'re fucking joking," Adrian replied. "I\'ve just been suffocated
most of the way to death after being poisoned, and you want me to get
into a fight with the fucking Hierarchy?"

"I do," Big Bird said as sternly as it was possible for him to be. "If
they are as formidable as Hrbrd suggests--"

"They are, and I\'m already feeling one foot in the fucking grave,"
Adrian said, finding he now had enough energy to be angry. "You want me
to fucking jump in with both feet?"

"It\'s that or waiting here, Adrian," Hrbrd added. "Your choice."

His choice? That was no fucking choice at all. As usual the Hierarchy
would crush them without some form of intervention, and if he just sat
in hospital they\'d end up coming for him or -- worse --they\'d simply
destroy the ship around him.

He groaned as he slipped his legs over the side of the bed and dropped
on to his feet with a slight ripple of pain all through his body. "Well
then," he said with false cheer, "let\'s go fuck their shit up."

---

Jennifer Delaney. Mid--twenties, and not much of anything really. Not
any more at least.

The transit back to Cimbrean hadn\'t taken much time, a couple of hours
on the outside, but under the effects of the stasis field she felt as
though she\'d arrived almost as soon as she had left. Still in her fugue
she had stumbled from the life pod and had fallen out into a perfect
woodland on a perfect world, landing on the soft ground where she could
stare up at the unfamiliar stars of an alien sky.

The poison in her mind slowly subsided, and was replaced by cool, awful
logic and reason. And guilt, of course. She mustn\'t forget the guilt.

Most of the memories had faded with the fugue, but the bad ones still
remained. She remembered waking up in the corridor after her unexpected
and unexplained breakdown; she remembered knocking Adrian out and then
kissing him goodbye. She remembered fleeing for the life pod and leaving
him to die.

She could have done without those memories, but that would have required
some sort of decent stroke of luck, and she couldn\'t remember the last
time she\'d had one of those.

"I must be the most unlucky Irish girl in the whole universe," she\'d
muttered glumly as she laid in the dirt. "Seriously, what did I do? Piss
in a Leprechaun\'s pot of gold?"

It took some really amazingly bad luck to accidentally murder the bloke
you had a thing for. She\'d always kind of thought that Adrian had been
a bit of a fuck--up, but he\'d had nothing on her.

Eventually hunger drove her to move. She\'d had to forage for food -- a
laughably easy task on a world like this -- and managed to come up with
a few days of food in a matter of hours, but that had given her more
time than she\'d wanted to think about things; about the past, about the
future, and about Adrian.

She really didn\'t want to think about that any more.

"Alright, Jen," she said as she found herself pacing. "Get a hold of
yourself, do you hear? Just get a hold of yourself."

The mantra was repeated until it stuck, until she could focus on
something other than the awful things that seemed to happen around her.
It was time to stop thinking about anything except for one thing: how
she was going to survive.

"Let\'s see," she\'d said as she stripped the life pod for everything it
had. The pod itself had power, but not enough to power the FTL or even
the kinetics, and it was essentially stuck where it was until it rusted
out. "We\'ve got a carry bag, a data pad, a few days worth of food...
some tools, and an FTL drive."

The FTL drive had been smaller than she\'d imagined, hardly the size
she\'d expected something of its importance to be. It didn\'t hurt to
take it with her, she never knew when she might find a working ship with
a broken drive.

The data pad immediately proved its value by providing a map of Cimbrean
and showing her position, as well as her orientation. It functioned just
like a navigation system back on Earth, except without the unhelpful
voice directions. From what she could tell there were roughly five
thousand of... whatever distance unit it used, between her and the
palace site.

If she could just get there, she\'d have access to potentially
repairable materials and spaceships, and more importantly she\'d be in
place to start building the first human colony.

"Alright, Jen," she said to herself. "You can do this!"

She could do it; she had to do it.

It was all she had left.

---

**Elinee, Hierarchy Strike Cruiser, deep space in the Far Reaches**

The Celzi fleet had continued to close on Thirteen\'s position, an
impossibility made reality by the presence of a human on board their
ships, but it had not done so unscathed. They had lost a single ship,
although it had only been their smallest, and crews had been subjected
to raw terror.

"Send the accumulated data to Central," Thirteen ordered his mechanised
crewmen. "The prototypes may have been destroyed, but there were still
important results that must be conveyed."

The prototypes had been modified after Zero had failed so spectacularly
to achieve subtlety, and provided with a simple enhancement that allowed
them to only charge the fusion blades they were striking with. It saved
on power, and it saved enough to keep the cloaking system on at all
times.

Not that that had helped when they\'d been coated in foam, or when a
psychotic human took one apart with the most savage violence that
Thirteen had seen in a *very* long time.

Thirteen knew that that human was probably on his way here now. He also
knew that that human was the same one Zero had optimistically reported
as deceased.

Thirteen grinned malevolently; he\'d never liked Zero and now he had the
information required to make Zero into nothing, and there was absolutely
nothing Zero could do about it.

The punishment for such catastrophic failure would be truly beautiful to
behold, and would remind the others of the need to work within the
shadows only, or at the very least to leave no witnesses.

He clicked over to immersion controls of the ship he commanded, and felt
his mind expand to accept the new inputs and mechanisms that controlled
the cruiser. Engines, deep space radar, plasma batteries and coilguns.

Missiles and mines.

And finally the control units.

The Elinee was the first of its kind; the most powerful ship in the
Hierarchy\'s considerable arsenal, and right now it belonged to
Thirteen.

He began seeding the mines, readied the missiles, and activated the
control units.

Today was going to be a good day.


