---
title: Beating the Clock
---

# Beating the Clock

\

\

::: chapter
**Hodgepodge, Pirate Cruiser, Far Reaches**

It had been about fifteen minutes and Roman had managed to make it the
rest of the way to the command deck without anything killing him. Things
had certainly tried, but he was completely paranoid about this
horror--movie of a starship and his adrenaline was up; the few robots
and traps that had been set against him had been responded to with speed
and precision.

Roman had taken it slow, he had kept eyes on every direction, and he had
somehow managed to survive. More nerve--jam drones, more plasma bots,
more turrets -- some that shot lightning bolts! -- and another narrowly
avoided gravity trap had all made the list of things that had nearly
killed him but didn\'t.

"Sergeant," he said, breathing heavily, "I\'m coming up on the command
deck now. How are you doing?"

"As before, Captain," Valery responded, pain all through his voice.
"Feels as though we\'ve been kicked by a dozen horses, all of them
pissed off."

The Sergeant\'s squad had come out of the gravity trap to find
themselves pinned down by anti--tank kinetic gunfire, which was
extremely painful even through hardened combat vacuum suits and the
protective gear they were wearing underneath. As Roman understood it
they\'d barely managed to avoid getting cooked by a nerve--jam grenade,
and that was when they\'d deployed grenades. Now they were recovering in
the hallways with possible bone fractures all over, and Roman was
effectively alone in getting the job done.

Which was fucking fantastic; he\'d need a whole ocean of vodka to forget
about this one.

"Everybody down!" he shouted as he burst onto the command deck. He put a
round through anyone with a weapon who didn\'t comply within two
seconds, and the rest made a real hurry of it. Part of him wanted to
finish the job, but Roman had no idea how to fly a starship and he
wasn\'t in the mood to try and learn.

"Who is in command of this Starship?!" he demanded, and pointed at the
nearest alien, some kind of raccoon creature. "You! You will tell me!"

The raccoon creature looked up, plainly terrified. "C--Commander
Zripob!" it stammered, and its voice marked it as a male.

"Which of you is he!?" Roman asked, looking between the various space
monstrosities. "Which!?"

"He\'s not here!" the raccoon guy continued. "He used the life pod to go
and disable the gravity spike on the frigate."

"On the frigate!?" Roman asked, turning to stare in the direction he
thought it was. It seemed strange for a commander to go and do such a
thing, but anybody capable of putting his men through what they\'d been
through was almost certainly more useful at that kind of operation than
the mewling lot now kissing the floor.

That was the man that Roman would have to destroy, if he ever wanted to
sleep well again. "Once the gravity spike is disabled, destroy the
life--pod and go into FTL."

"You want us to abandon him?" the raccoon man asked, then appeared to
think about what he\'d said. "I... think we\'d all be fine with that."

Roman barked a laugh. It seemed his foe\'s own crew liked him about as
much as Roman did. "Then see to it!"

The command crew, shaken but obedient, rose and returned to their
duties, averting their eyes from any comrades with bullet holes in them.

"Gravity spike is disabled," said one of them, some sort of blue
giraffe, after just a few minutes. "Firing on life pod."

"Life pod has been destroyed," another said impassively, this one some
sort of frog creature. "Commander Zripob has no way back."

"Now set FTL for the nearest Alliance planet," Roman commanded. With his
team the way they were, there was just no way that he was going to be
able to take on a whole pirate base. He had terrible premonitions of a
space station filled with more deadly traps, set up with the idea of
killing absolutely anything that dared to go aboard.

"FTL systems are not responding," another blue giraffe said, and he
sounded genuinely surprised. "We are locked out of all Command systems."

"The Commander must have transferred those functions to his datapad,"
the raccoon guy determined, and sounded rather angry in doing it. "But
the FTL isn\'t part of the Command system."

"Get it working!" Roman grated. He didn\'t much like the idea of being
adrift in space for god knew how long, and especially not with
absolutely no other way out.

"It\'s under some sort of override!" the blue giraffe protested, turning
to face Roman only to shrink away from his angry gaze. "I *can\'t* get
it working until that\'s lifted!"

Roman was about to say he didn\'t give a shit when he was interrupted by
the raccoon.

"Sensors show something else has entered local space," the raccoon guy
said. "It\'s a Salvage runner."

‚ÅÇ

Zripob supposed he should be glad that they hadn\'t started firing at
the frigate itself, but that didn\'t help when it came to getting off
the doomed ship. All of the life pods were either irreparably damaged or
had already ejected and were quickly pushing on towards the boundaries
of the gravity spike.

"Things are not looking good," he mused, but they were still looking
worse for the Hodgepodge. He\'d seen one of the intruders reach the
command deck and then some of the life signs on the deck had
disappeared. Going back there was probably a creative way to commit
suicide, and Zripob had never been one for self--sacrifice.

That was when the Salvage runner had appeared in local space -- the ship
id\'ed as Kefani\'s vessel -- and set an intercept course for the
Hodgepodge.

Nothing good would come of that; if she boarded that ship she\'d
probably die, and she\'d give the human soldiers a way off. The soldiers
were in command of his crew, and it was likely she\'d never even see it
coming.

He did her a favour and disabled their access to the Hodgepodge\'s
communication system, switching it over to be used through his datapad.
"Kefani," he said, activating a link. "This is Commander Zripob. Do
*not* go aboard that vessel. Dock with the frigate instead."

The voice that answered him was not Kefani; it was probably the worst
voice he could have expected to hear around that time, and that included
anyone from the Celzi Alliance military. It was the voice of Adrian
Saunders.

"G\'day mate," the mad human said cheerily, "I heard you were in a bit
of a fucking bind, but I\'m guessing you had to bail on your ship?"

Zripob hesitated. He wasn\'t sure how much he wanted to get involved
with this particular human again; Adrian had a habit of attracting vast
amounts of unwanted and unexpected trouble, and Zripob had gotten tired
of only barely surviving it. There had to be a way out of this that
didn\'t include Adrian Saunders \'rescuing\' him.

Well... there was *one*.

"Adrian," he said, forcing some cheer into his voice. "I\'d never
thought I would hear from you again. Come and get me quickly."

"Sit tight mate," Adrian replied. "What\'s going on in the Hodgepodge
anyway?"

"The enemy had control of the weapons, they just blew up my life pod,"
Zripob explained. "I\'ve locked them out of those controls for now."

"I\'m just docking now," Adrian told him. "Come aboard, and then we\'ll
figure out what I\'m going to do with you."

Zripob did as he was bade, and was glad to see the inside of a
functional vessel in spite of the terrifying presence of Adrian
Saunders. "I take it you\'ve stolen this vessel from Kefani?"

Adrian frowned. "More like *borrowed* for an indeterminate amount of
time, but I just need to get to Cimbrean and back."

"You\'re going to the colony there?" Zripob asked in surprise. "I did
not think you had any desire to return to Earth."

"I don\'t... I didn\'t know there was a *colony* there until you told me
right now," Adrian said, and this seemed to bother him. "This might not
be as easy as I was hoping."

Things were rarely easy as far as Adrian Saunders was concerned, Zripob
thought to himself; the prospect of joining with him on yet another one
of his inevitable misadventures was unpleasant to say the least, and
Zripob had no intention of doing so.

"Now that I\'m aboard, I\'ll tell you what happened aboard the
Hodgepodge," he said, considering how to spin the story. "We were
boarded by eight human soldiers, and seem to have managed to disable
three and kill four. That is an astounding victory, or it would be had
the last of them not gained control of the ship by reaching the command
deck."

"How many crewmen have you got on there?" Adrian asked. "It\'s a big
ship..."

"I would say that there are twenty survivors at the moment," Zripob
said, "but that\'s likely to diminish quite suddenly once the
self--destruct activates."

Adrian stared at him in horror, which seemed pretty judgemental from the
guy who\'d ignited the Great Hunt. "You\'ve... you\'ve turned on the
self--destruct with twenty of your own men inside!? What the fuck kind
of plan is that!?"

"It was a practical one," Zripob defended, but this conversation was
going exactly the way he wanted it to. "Now that you\'re here, perhaps
you can assist me by re--taking the ship? Then I won\'t have to destroy
it."

Now Adrian was glaring at him. "Great... fucking great. Alright, we\'ll
do your shitty fucking plan, and then you can escort me to Cimbrean."

That had been easy. "Agreed," Zripob replied.

There was now no way that he could lose. If Adrian won, the ship would
be restored to Zripob\'s command and he could claim his actions had been
pure strategy. If Adrian failed, then he, the human soldiers and anyone
who might give conflicting reports about the situation would be dead,
and Zripob would make it out with his reputation intact. They would all
mourn Adrian and the rest of the crew, but life would go on.

Well, Zripob\'s life would go on, and that was what mattered.

"I remain in control of various systems," he said. "If you go in I shall
monitor them from here and provide assistance where possible."

"Nice to see we\'re going with Plan B," Adrian replied bitterly.
"Although at least this time I don\'t have to kill *everyone*."

Zripob honestly didn\'t care if he did or he didn\'t, but a smile seemed
to suffice in place of words.

They docked with the Hodgepodge as Adrian wisely suited up. He had his
own combat hardened vacuum suit now -- a Celzi uniform from the styling
of it -- and Zripob wondered what could have transpired to provision the
man tasked with raiding them with one of their uniforms.

"Wish me luck," Adrian said as he stepped forth, bridging the space
between ships in a few short steps. He was not sounding particularly
optimistic about what was ahead of him -- and perhaps he shouldn\'t be
-- but he was approaching it with a sense of resignation.

"Good luck," Zripob said with a wave, and then he shut the door.

A moment later he\'d released from the larger vessel and was pulling
away with all the speed the kinetics would give him.

A few moments later he sent a message through to Adrian Saunders, and
punched into FTL.

‚ÅÇ

**Hodgepodge, Pirate Cruiser, Far Reaches**

Adrian Saunders stood in the first corridor of the Hodgepodge and
re--read the message. The facts it presented were that Zripob had just
bailed on him -- claiming he was at risk of weapons fire again and
stealing Keffa\'s salvage runner in the process -- and the Hodgepodge
was protected by a large number of automated traps that Zripob had not
disabled. Traps from the minds of Zripob, Chir and Jennifer Delaney,
many of which had been adapted from ideas Adrian himself had arrived at.

"This fucking bullshit is why I have trust issues," he muttered to
himself. "Space... nothing but arseholes."

There wasn\'t time to reflect on the situation, nor on his own
gullibility that had led him into it. The clock was ticking, and every
moment spent fucking around instead of doing something put him one
moment closer to floating around in space thinking about how fucked he
was.

If he ever got five goddamned minutes of time not spent dealing with or
recovering from some colossal clusterfuck he\'d have to sit down and
seriously reevaluate his life choices.

"Well," he said, starting down the corridor with considerable
trepidation. "Let\'s see what all those demented minds could come up
with..."

He walked carefully, and as he walked he mentally assessed the resources
available to each side. Zripob\'s brief description of the human
soldiers suggested automatic weapons, grenades and probable sidearms.
Adrian on the other hand had a fusion cutter about three inches long.

Shitty fucking plan. Little wonder Zripob bailed, but if Adrian somehow
managed a miracle he\'d be having some pretty fucking interesting words
with that glorified toad if they ever met again.

He removed his helmet and kicked it along the floor ahead of him,
judging that the reduction to his senses was a lot more likely to get
him killed than a sudden lack of air, and if it set off a trap instead
of him then it was a price worth paying.

When he kicked it past a service passage only to have it suddenly turn
away to the right he figured he\'d been correct. "Invisible traps are
the fucking best," he observed, wondering exactly what it was that was
going to try and kill him.

There was only one way to find out, however, so he stopped at the corner
and held out his arm only to be entirely unsurprised that some arsehole
had turned a long fucking corridor into a long fucking drop. To his left
he saw a rope hanging across the passage showing where someone had
managed to cross, and to his right a corpse showing where someone
hadn\'t.

"Too wide to jump it?" he asked himself, casting an eye over the gap and
the structural reinforcements jutting a short distance out from the
corners. In a human--built ship those would be full of rivets and could
give plenty of grip, but on the Hodgepodge -- and all Celzi ships for
that matter -- they were smooth and shiny and looked exactly like the
last thing you\'d want to bet your life on.

The problem was he didn\'t have enough time to turn back and find
another way, and realistically he wasn\'t sure he even had enough time
to go this way. He looked to his right; there was only one way that was
going to get him to the command deck with time to spare and he was
looking at it.

He fished the fusion cutter out of his belt and stared at it for a
moment, hoping that it was up to the task about to be demanded of it.
"This is a fucking bad idea, Saunders," he told himself. "Really fucking
bad..."

But he\'d seen it done in some old movies about pirates, so how bad
could it be? Adrian Saunders planted the fusion cutter into the floor
and swung himself out onto it with both hands. It sliced downwards as
he\'d expected, but with considerably less resistance than he would have
enjoyed.

"Fuuuuuuck!" he screamed as the doors flashed past him, all of his focus
put on holding that cutter in a death grip. A long molten gash streaked
behind the blade, vanishing upwards as he fell.

He twisted the blade in the wall, veering himself towards a wall in an
effort to slow his mad descent, and the impact slammed him so hard that
he very nearly lost the blade. Adrian Saunders hadn\'t often been
thankful for what Cruezzir had done to him, but he was thankful right
now; there wasn\'t a doubt in his mind that without the strength it had
provided he would have fallen to a very unpleasant kind of death.

With gritted teeth he turned the blade the other way, zig--zagging his
way down the corridor and cursing every inch of the way. He was still
about fifteen metres up when the fusion blade burned out and stopped.

He hung there, breathing heavily, and looked down. It was still a long
drop, and the dead man lay sprawled across most of the bottom of it.
"Fuck, that\'s about five stories... can I drop five stories onto a dead
man?"

He considered that for a moment and then shook the thought from his
head. "That\'s fucking retarded, Saunders... there\'s *doors*... just
fucking use one!"

There *were* doors, and one was very nearly within reach. He swung
himself gently, praying that the cutter would hold for a few moments
yet. One swing... nearly. A second let him tap it lightly with his foot.
The third kicked it open, and the cutter blade snapped under the force
of the swing.

"Jesus!" he cried out, his right arm extending only just in time to grab
the frame. He slammed into the wall again, holding on only by one arm
and breathing short, shallow breaths. "Holy... holy fuck..."

With a burst of adrenaline fuelled energy he pulled himself over the
door frame and collapsed on the floor of the room on the other side.
"You know, Saunders," he berated himself as he staggered to his feet,
"it\'d be really fucking nice if one day you stopped doing stupid shit!"

He glanced around wildly at the room he was in, totally unprepared for
any kind of threat if there happened to be one. There wasn\'t, however,
because it was a storage room. "Fucking storage rooms," he laughed
wildly, wiping his mouth on the sleeve of his vacuum suit. "Let\'s see
what this one\'s got."

What it didn\'t have was any weapons, any tools, or any other way out.
What it *did* have was coils and coils of spare conduit cabling,
something that would serve pretty damned well as a rope, at least if he
used enough of it and only for the short distance remaining to the
bottom of the corridor.

"Oh yeah..." he said, "we\'re back in fucking business now."

Three minutes later he was the rest of the way down the corridor and was
crouching over two shattered helmets and an equally broken corpse. The
corpse had held an AK--9, a Russian issue assault rifle, along two extra
magazines and three fragmentation grenades. He wasn\'t sure what he
might end up doing with those, but he felt a shitload better just by
having them.

Maybe he could make this miracle happen yet.

‚ÅÇ

Captain Roman Kaminski watched the life sign move incredibly quickly
down the corridor before coming to a sudden halt, just shy of the end.
This, he saw, was how the aliens had always been prepared for them, no
matter which way they had elected to go. It was hard to get ahead of
your enemy when they knew what you were doing at all times.

"Sergeant," Roman said, speaking to Markovic. "There\'s somebody in your
general area, but I\'m not sure *who* they are."

"Would you like us to check it out, Captain?" Markovic asked, pain still
heavy in his voice but now matched by determination; it seemed that the
time they had spent resting had been time well spent.

"What is your status, Sergeant?" Roman asked. He wasn\'t going to send
injured men to investigate anything that could move *that* fast.

"Nothing we can\'t walk off," Markovic lied.

Roman didn\'t call him on it, he really needed the team to put eyes on
what was coming in their direction, regardless of how risky it was.
"Then I\'ll direct you as to where you can set up an ambush."

He did so, urging them to move as quickly as they could so that they
could head the new intruder off, and turned to the command crew for
further help. "What do you have that can stop this intruder?"

The raccoon was first to speak again. "With the exception of the hover
cameras, the drones have all been destroyed by you and your men. If that
intruder is to be stopped, you will need to hope that the traps or your
men manage to do it."

Roman turned back to the display, seeing where the life sign fit in on
the ship and figuring that neither he or his team had passed through the
area. "What trap is the intruder headed into next?"

"That area contains plasma vents," the raccoon advised. "I doubt the
intruder will get through there alive."

Roman nodded, grimacing at the memory of Denis Lagunov burning in a
pillar of flame. There had only been a split second to make the decision
to fire upon the pop--up turrets, and not everyone would have been able
to manage it. That sort of thing needed reaction times that were found
in only a few gifted individuals, such as Roman Kaminski himself, and he
doubted that this intruder would have the same kind of speed.

"Sergeant," he said, speaking to Markovic once again. "When you think
you\'re getting close, just listen for the screams."

Markovic acknowledged, and Roman focused intently on the view screen,
sparing only enough awareness to make sure the command crew didn\'t try
any funny business. The little blip was in the passage way, and there
wasn\'t anywhere for him to go but into the fire.

He swallowed nervously, watching the group of his own men negotiate the
corridors that were deemed safe, on their way to meet a man who would
very soon be barbecued.

Any moment now...

Roman heard the distant explosion rattle the ship, noting the flicker of
the lights as power was very briefly disrupted. It happened a second
time before what had happened became apparent. The little blip had not
disappeared but had continued moving down the hallway.

"Markovic," he radioed when he saw his team getting close, "what the
hell was that?"

There was a hesitation, but Markovic came through after a moment.
"Sounded like a grenade," he said. "there are two large holes in the
walls spilling some sort of gas... I am reluctant to attempt passing
through."

"Whoever was ahead of you managed it," Roman replied sharply. "Find
another way around! I don\'t intend you to--"

The ship shook violently with a thundering explosion, the lights
flickering madly as it rolled through the vessel. Roman held tightly to
the nearest fixture -- in this case an overly--padded seat -- as the
shuddering came to an end.

When it finished, all of the blips were gone, including those on the
command deck. That system was down, and it didn\'t look like the only
one. "Sergeant..." he radioed. "Valery, are you there!?"

"Captain," Markovic replied, panting. "The gasses... they just
ignited..."

"What is your status?" Roman demanded with a sinking feeling. An
explosion like that on a ship like this? There was no way it was going
to end well.

"We barely had enough time to get into any cover at all," reported
Markovic. It was clear he was under heavy strain. "The shockwave... I
have multiple... I think one of my legs is broken. Sokoloff isn\'t
responding, but I think he\'s still alive. Not sure where Yakovlev is,
the air is all full of this red haze... Hard to see."

"I take it that there is no sign of the intruder?" Roman asked, glancing
at the view screen every few seconds to see if the systems were back up
yet. They weren\'t.

"Not that I could see," Markovic responded. "Captain, I\'m going to try
and move Sokoloff and myself into one of these rooms. I\'m still not
getting anything from Yakovlev."

"Understood, Sergeant," Roman said, terminating the contact.

Roman Kaminski steadied his breathing, and ran his tongue over dry lips.
"Alright," he said, back in the game, "come and get it, Mister Blippy."

‚ÅÇ

The explosion had not been intentional. Or at least the big one had not
been intentional, the smaller ones had been very intentional indeed.
Adrian had seen the heat rising from those \'vents\', the first and
hopefully only time his freaky eyes would prove useful. A pair of
grenades had destroyed the mechanism, and there shouldn\'t have been any
ignition with that part destroyed.

He\'d been outside of the blast zone when something had sparked and set
the gas mix off in a rush of atmospheric plasma, and he supposed he
should be thankful that the vapours hadn\'t spread further before it had
happened. With no helmet he would have suffered considerable
consequences.

"Some demented fucking arsehole thought it was a good idea to pump
plasma down a hallway," he commented to himself, making the comment
*about* himself. The big plasma cutters on the Zhadersil had been
extremely effective at clearing the decks, and he didn\'t doubt that
whatever those vents were intended to do would have been just as
effective. He was really coming to *hate* just how effective he\'d been
in those early days.

There wasn\'t much more distance to go before he\'d made it to the door
to the command deck. It was closed, but he doubted it was locked, and
inside there waited some kind of Russian military man -- at least one
Russian military man -- who probably wanted to shoot him.

Adrian had an assault rifle, he had one fragmentation grenade. He
figured he could toss the grenade in, wait for the explosion, and then
follow up with--

No! No, no, *no*! He ran his hands through his hair, altogether too
aware that his judgement was unreliable. That plan was reckless, too
reckless when the only cover might as well have been made of tissue
paper. He didn\'t know the situation either, only what Zripob had said
and right now Zripob didn\'t seem like the most trustworthy of guys.

Less aggressive... some sort of calm option... talking! Talking could be
calm! It seemed like it might be worth a shot if actual shooting was the
only alternative.

He gritted his teeth, knowing that this was probably a stupid plan as
well but knowing he couldn\'t trust what he thought.

"Hello?!" he shouted, wincing with the expectation of suddenly being
shot. "Is there a human in there?"

He really hoped the answer wasn\'t going to be gunfire.

‚ÅÇ

The internal sensors had come back online just in time to show Roman
that Yakovlev was alive but immobile, and that the intruder had made it
to the door of the command deck. He fingered his AK--9 nervously,
keeping the barrel levelled at the door the intruder would have to enter
by. The mood on the command deck was tense, and Roman was waiting for
the moment he\'d have to shoot.

He figured it might be better to err on the side of caution with this
one, especially given the explosion.

That was when he heard the voice. It spoke in English, but the accent
was sharper... American perhaps? No... that wasn\'t right. Whatever the
case, his translator turned it into perfect Russian.

"Hello?!" it had shouted, a husky male voice with a twist of
desperation. "Is there a human in there?"

Roman paused, cocking his head to the side as his tension was replaced
by confusion. A human was, technically speaking, a much greater threat
than an alien, but at the same time it could also mean something
entirely else. He was a little bit hesitant to go shooting a human who
had arrived in his own starship in their time of need, and who thus far
hadn\'t started shooting at him.

"There is," Roman called back. He made sure his gun remained pointed at
the door in case of any trickery, but he was readying for the other man
to enter without them trying to kill each other. "Who are you?"

There was a half--crazed laugh, and Roman bit his lip nervously. Whoever
this guy was, it seemed like he was on the edge and that could be
dangerous.

"I\'m a guy in a real fucking hurry!" the man replied. "The
Self--Destruct has been activated by the commander of this ship."

Roman was aware that this was news to the command crew, because there
was an immediate flurry of activity as they rushed to confirm it. He
kept an ear on them as they worked, picking out phrases like \'Not
running\', and \'Something\'s running\' and \'Silent mode\'. Those
phrases seemed to get progressively more serious in nature, to the point
when Roman decided he was going to believe the man.

"Thank you for letting us know," Roman called back. "We will be sure to
get this turned off."

"We can\'t turn it off," the raccoon guy informed him. "That system is
in lockdown."

"Is there another way?" Roman demanded. He was a highly trained soldier,
but the idea of dying on a starship that was destroying itself in the
depths of space scared the shit out of him.

"I don\'t know..." the raccoon guy replied. "I\'m not an engineer..."

"I\'m an engineer!" the voice offered. "Can I come in?"

Roman bit his lip again. He didn\'t think that he had much of a choice,
even if he really didn\'t like the idea of some random human turning up
to help him. It seemed like that was a great way for things to go really
badly wrong. "Come in, but know I will have my gun pointed at you."

The door opened slowly, and a man in Celzi Alliance colours entered. He
was scruffy and powerfully built, with dark hair and beard running as
wild as his eyes. He had the look of a man who was standing on the
precipice of snapping, and as he was carrying an AK--9 he had all the
firepower he\'d need to really fuck up everybody\'s day.

That didn\'t exactly fill Roman with happiness, but it wasn\'t being
pointed at him so he guessed that was something.

"G\'day," the man said. "I\'m Adrian. Can you stop pointing the gun at
me so we can unfuck ourselves?"

He was Australian then, Roman determined, and after a moment he lowered
his weapon slightly. "Captain Roman Kaminski. Where did you get that
gun?"

"I picked it up off a dead guy," Adrian replied candidly, "figured he
wasn\'t using it anymore, and I didn\'t know whether I was going to be
shooting you or not."

"I\'m thinking *not*?" Roman asked, raising an eyebrow. "I would not
recommend the attempt."

Adrian nodded. "I\'m hoping we can come to some sort of compromise here
where nobody else gets shot and we can all fuck off back to where we
came from. Sound good to you?"

"Sounds good to me," Roman confirmed. "First though, what did you do to
my men?"

Adrian\'s expression of utter cluelessness told Roman all he needed to
know on that one. "What men?"

"Near the explosion... I had some men," Roman told him, grinding his
teeth as he thought about it. "Fortunately for you they are still
alive."

"Well, thank fuck for that then," Adrian said, at least *some* measure
of his relief appearing to be genuine. "But if we don\'t get this sorted
out, we\'re all fucked. I don\'t have a helmet for floating around in
space, so I reckon that\'s my motivation. Everyone here like breathing?"

The consensus was that everyone did, but Roman couldn\'t help but notice
that the command crew were all far more nervous now than they had been
before the human had entered. At a better time he\'d ask why that was,
but right now there was a fairly major problem that needed dealing with.

"What do we need to do?" he asked.

"If you guys can\'t unfuck it from here, I need to get to engineering,"
Adrian told him. "Can you turn off all those fucking traps?"

"We can\'t," the raccoon guy ventured, far more timidly than Roman had
been spoken to. "That system is locked out."

Adrian rubbed a hand across his face and ran it back through his hair.
"Just... fucking reboot whatever needs rebooting. Can you at least get
me past the areas with traps?"

"Yes," the raccoon guy confirmed. "You\'ve got a datapad there, we could
set up a link..."

"Do it," Roman ordered. "Are you sure you can do this, Adrian?"

Adrian stared at him. "Mate, I\'m not sure I can do it *alone*."

Roman would be surprised if this man could manage much of *anything* on
his own at the moment, but he kept that comment to himself. "What do you
need me to do."

"It\'s the FTL that\'s going to fuck us," Adrian explained in brief.
"I\'m going to trip the power to it. The conduits will auto--off for
safety, and when I do that I need you to yank it."

"You\'re sure this will work?" Roman asked, eyeing the crazy--looking
Australian.

Adrian gave his best reassurance in reply. "Not fucking sure of anything
right now, but it should work. If it doesn\'t, we\'re all probably going
to die anyway."

With a deep breath to steady his nerves, Roman nodded. Like the
Australian said, they effectively had nothing to lose. "In that case,"
he said, "you had better lead the way."

‚ÅÇ

Adrian was leading the way, although he was letting his datapad do the
actual navigating. He figured that it might have been easy for the
command crew to send him directly into a trap, but aliens weren\'t
stupid. They knew that they had exactly one survival prospect, and it
was Captains Adrian Saunders and Roman Kaminski.

They ran, or at least Adrian ran and Roman pushed himself to follow. He
was breathing heavily in the lighter atmosphere to which Adrian\'s body
had become accustomed, and Adrian was forced to slow his pace to allow
the Russian to catch up.

"How do you not tire?" Roman demanded between heaving breaths.

"Alien mutant juice," Adrian replied, laughing at his joke. "Works
fucking wonders for the body."

"Mutant juice?" Roman asked, staring at him. "You do not look like a
mutant."

Adrian knew that was true, because what he looked like was a space hobo.
Everything that was wrong with him was completely invisible, and who
knew what kind of effects the Cruezzir was having that the doctor
hadn\'t picked up on? He shrugged. "You\'d be surprised."

Then, when Roman had managed to catch his breath, he turned to run
again, albeit at a slower pace this time. This time the Russian managed
to keep up and they were at the Engineering section within ten or so
minutes.

It was bigger than Adrian had been expecting, but he tried not to let
his surprise show. It was important to seem confident when doing this,
otherwise the Russian Captain might stop him. If that happened, they\'d
all get to find out what suffocating was like.

"There\'s the reactor!" he said, pointing it out to Roman. "And over
there is the FTL. They\'re smaller than you\'d expect, but don\'t be
fooled... it\'s all in how much power you put through them."

Roman stared at him intently. "Are you up for this, Adrian?"

"Mate, I\'m not having the best day, but I can do *this*," Adrian
assured him. There wasn\'t anything he was doing now that he hadn\'t
accidentally done back on the Zhadersil, except this time it wasn\'t
going to be by accident.

And once he was done he\'d be able to have some sort of fucking rest
between now and the next goddamned disaster. At some point he\'d
actually manage to get to Cimbrean and he\'d actually manage to see Jen
again; he just had to keep going.

"Go check for the release," Adrian instructed the Russian. "There should
be an access panel on the drive container."

"What will you be doing?" Roman asked, already turning to do as
instructed.

"I\'ll be fucking around with some cabling and a goddamned quantum
resonance reactor," Adrian replied. Not that he had the slightest
knowledge of what he was doing when he was dealing with the latter, but
he knew enough about the infrastructure it was hooked connected to in
order to get by.

"Then it seems I have the easy job," Roman mused, walking over to his
station and starting to look around.

"Actually," Adrian called out from the reactor, "if this goes really
fucking sideways, we\'re probably both going to get cooked by plasma."

"I have every confidence in your ability to avoid that, Adrian," Roman
replied, and Adrian started to get the feeling that he was being treated
with kid--gloves.

"Good news!" Adrian shouted out as he discovered that the infrastructure
was familiar to that of the Dominion vessels. "This is basically the
same as the ships I... accidentally made not work."

"Is that intended to reassure me?" Roman called back. "Adrian... there
is no access port, this is all sealed."

"That\'s impossible!" Adrian replied, jogging over to where Roman was
peeking around wall units and protective plates. A quick examination
showed that the FTL drive on this ship had been sealed into its housing
and could not be removed.

Nothing about it could be accessed.

"Well," said Adrian, staring at the giant monkey wrench in his plans,
"that\'s no fucking good at all."

"We could blow it up!" Roman suggested. "That would stop it."

"I don\'t want to be stuck here on a dead ship," Adrian replied.
"There\'s not much help this far out, unless you fancy engaging the
service of some really pissed off pirates?"

"Then what do you suggest!?" the Russian demanded. "Since you seem to
know everything!"

"I\'ve just got to burn out specific sections of the conduits," Adrian
replied. "You push enough power through them in the wrong way and they
whip around in lines of pure plasma."

"That sounds incredibly dangerous," Roman objected. "You would have to
be insane to do that!"

"Don\'t worry mate," Adrian replied with his most reassuring grin.
"I\'ve actually done it a few times."
:::
