---
title: The Edge of Time
---

# The Edge of Time

\

\

::: chapter
**DATE POINT: 3Y 10M 4W 2D AV**

**ABOARD THE DEVASTATOR, LANDED ON AGWAR**

**JENNIFER DELANEY**

Jennifer Delaney, mid--twenties space--babe adventurer, inadvertent
religious icon and war hero, and current leader of whatever--the--fuck
this situation could be called. When she had lived back on Earth, she'd
had a normal goddamned life and a normal goddamned job, and her boss had
often enjoyed saying how things had 'gone from bad to worse'.
Susan---that was her name, Susan McEvoy---had bandied about the phrase
until it had lost any meaning it had ever had, trivialising it with her
mundanity. Faced with her current circumstances, Jen couldn't see any
other way to describe how things were developing, and if anything it
seemed like a gross understatement. Maybe it was better to say that
things had gone from dreadful to awful, although that hardly rolled off
the tongue. Darragh had been much more straightforward with his
assessment, declaring that everything was completely fucked.

That was about the size of it, Jen figured: everything *was* fucked. Now
it was up to her to tell everyone just how fucked it all was.

*Oh well,* she thought to herself, *at least they'll have confirmation.*

It wasn't as though it was any great secret, not with the way the last
several days had been going---not with the way Adrian wasn't healing, or
the disastrous attempt to let the automated medical suite have a go at
fixing him---and the atmosphere at today's meeting was a grim one.

"I take it we're in for bad news again," Darragh observed, gathering as
much from her sour expression. "Best just get it over with."

They were sat around the conference table in Chir's office, or at least
it was the room he'd claimed as such. It was an austere room without
unnecessary decoration, and was only furnished as need dictated, but the
seats were larger and softer than the human body required and so they
found it comfortable if dreary. Chir was at the head of the table---this
was his ship, after all---while the large display that occupied the
other end currently showed detailed scans of the incredibly deadly
warship that remained in orbit. Jen was sitting to Chir's immediate
left, directly across from Darragh, and to the right of Xayn, while
Keffa preferred to stand. Askit was absent as usual, although Jen knew
he'd be busy listening in to the conversation and would interject as he
saw fit.

Jen replied to Darragh with a sombre nod. "It's been a month and there
hasn't been a change in Adrian's condition, and our supplies are
beginning to run low. We need to talk about what we're going to do about
that."

"Maybe we should talk about why he's like that in the first place?"
Keffa suggested sternly, turning a dark look upon Jen.

Darragh winced along with Jen. "Come on, Keff... there was no way Jen
could have known---"

Keffa cut him off with a hiss. "Of course you'd take her side!"

He stared at the table; this wasn't the first time they'd had this
argument, and he seemed to have an endless well of patience for dealing
with the spacer--girl's crap. If it had been up to Jen they'd have left
the jealous idiot on the nearest station, but that wasn't a luxury they
currently had available to them. "Jesus Christ," he muttered, "I'm just
trying to be reasonable."

"It's not reasonable to give someone a bunch of alien drugs you don't
know a thing about!" Keffa shot back, and turned a critical eye back to
Jen. "They talked you up a lot, but in the end you've fucked us all!"

Jen bit her tongue, resisting the urge to give in to the argument, and
she didn't like to admit it but the girl was right. She'd been the one
making the decisions when Adrian had collapsed after the battle, and
she'd been the one making the decisions that put him in the medical
suite. She'd been so focused on getting him into it that hadn't done her
due diligence on what it was putting into him, and it wasn't until later
that she'd finally figured out what she'd done.

Not that Keffa knew any of that---none of them did, it was Jen's secret
to keep---so she was just making unfounded accusations, but somehow that
made it hurt all the more. It was as if Keffa could see through the
fa√ßade of ignorance and supposition that Jen had projected since the
incident, and it never felt nice to have a buried secret exposed.

The truth was that she had been able to recognise one of the drugs they
had given their resident ubermensch; cold comfort given that it was only
due to her fandom of a popular television show about illicit
drug--making that she even had that knowledge. The show had piqued her
interest and she'd spent long hours of downtime trawling the internet
for anything and everything she could learn about it. Most people would
have forgotten the details over the years, but Cruezzir didn't make
forgetting easy, and Jen had recognised 'Oxaron' for what it really was.
Granted it had only been a little bit, but as far as she was concerned
any amount was too much when it was injected directly into the brain,
and it was little wonder that the Human Disaster had torn apart the
medical unit a moment later. It was far more surprising that he had
survived that in addition to the three Nerve--Jam blasts, something she
was sure would have killed anyone but Adrian, but as weeks had passed
even that belief had fallen into question.

"It's no secret that things didn't turn out as we expected," she said,
her eyes shifting between each of them. "But we can't just sit here
waiting for a day that may never come. As you know, I've been talking to
the A.I. every day, and I've been stalling for Adrian's recovery, but as
it looks as though we'll need some help for that I've been building
towards another solution."

"Meaning the rest of us get away?" Darragh inferred, one eyebrow raised
above a disapproving gaze. Whatever his feelings were about Adrian in
particular, the young Irishman made no secret of his 'no man left
behind' attitude.

"Meaning we go for help," Jen corrected. "I've managed to talk the A.I.
into letting the rest of us leave and return."

"How?" Chir asked. "How did you convince it to do this?"

Jen gave a little shrug. "It wasn't easy, but in the end it's only
interested in Adrian. I just had to talk it into letting the rest of us
move around as we wish."

Next to her, Xayn let out a long and thoughtful hiss. "If it were me, I
would make this my ploy, and capture you all to serve as bait for my
main prize."

"Interesting idea," mused Chir, turning it over in his mind. He look to
Jen sceptically. "How do we know that's not the case?"

Jen sighed. "I don't think it's clever enough for that, and I've been
careful to build up a story, so it's believable. Besides, it's not as
though we have a choice."

"Shit," Darragh grumbled, and the sentiment was echoed: every last one
of them knew she was right, and a sullen silence followed.

"What's your plan, then?" Askit asked over the comms, apparently
listening in after all. "With Adrian out of commission, 'Plan B' is
definitely out."

"I enjoy 'Plan B'!' Xayn volunteered, although it was immediately
apparent that he was in the minority.

"My plan," Jen replied, ignoring the V'Straki engineer, "is to leave on
an 'errand' at Adrian's command. What we're really doing is getting more
medical supplies and a surgeon."

Keffa crossed her arms and leaned back against the wall, wearing no sign
of belief whatsoever. "I doubt we're going to find a surgeon who'll want
to help us!"

"Hah!" Chir barked, almost literally. "I can't remember the last time we
went looking for volunteers."

Darragh sighed. "Business as usual, then."

"Business as usual," Jen confirmed with a nod. "We'll have to take the
Devastator for this, though, since it's better armed."

"Problem there," Darragh pointed out. "The 'Spot', which is a stupid
name for a starship, doesn't have a medical suite, and Adrian kind of
needs one to live."

"Stasis," Chir inferred before Jen could answer. "We're going to put him
back in the stasis pod, aren't we? This whole venture will have been a
waste of time!"

"Is that a no?" Jen asked.

"It's a reluctant *yes*," Chir growled testily. "Let's not mess this up
again!"

"I agree with the Gaoian," Askit announced.

"Me too," Darragh agreed, and Xayn and Trycrur were quick to follow. All
eyes turned to Keffa, who likewise granted a grating concession.

"Good," Jen said, releasing a breath she hadn't realised she was
holding. "I'll talk to Groddi and make the preparations. We can trust
them to hold down the fortress---so to speak---while we're away."

With everyone in agreement the meeting was adjourned, and Jen was left
to follow through with her plan. The first step was moving Adrian back
into a stasis pod, which the Agwarens were more than capable of doing,
but the second was somewhat more involved. After a month in the
encampment the natives had managed to build a substantial
semi--permanent structure around the two starships, and Lord Groddi had
claimed one of the little rooms as his own. Having few tools of their
own to begin with, Jen and Xayn had assisted in getting things started,
but they were an industrious people who had done much with what they'd
been given. Groddi seemed to think it had a lot to do with the loss of
their home, and that the soldiers were working in preference to
grieving, and Jen couldn't help but agree. This much was good enough to
keep them alive so far, and although it might be unsustainable in the
long term it was exactly what was needed right now, so she saved any
objections or advice for a later date.

"How long will you be?" Groddi asked her as they took a walk around the
compound. The little room was his office in name, but in practice he
preferred to walk around while he conversed, and was satisfied with it
being a status symbol. "There will not be enough food for an extended
wait---even now we're exhausting the local resources. If we run out..."

"We won't be *that* long," Jen assured him; the nearest colony was only
a couple weeks away at most, and supplies were not dwindling as fast as
Groddi was suggesting. "I need you to stay here and look after Adrian in
the meantime."

"We have no medicine," Groddi replied.

She shook her head with a smile. "There'll be no need for you to do
anything but stand guard over the smaller vessel."

It was clear from his expression that he doubted this, but he didn't
voice his dispute---by now he'd seen enough to simply accept any madness
she chose to tell him, no matter how unlikely, and this was no
different. Not long ago Groddi had demanded explanations for all sorts
of things, and Jen had obliged, but he'd stopped once he'd established
that he didn't understand any of it anyway.

"I must ask," he said, "what if you do not return?"

Jen bit her lower lip thoughtfully. "To the north there's a narrow
strait between here and the mainland that should be easily crossed. If
we're not back in sixty days, you can head that way."

"Sixty days..." he repeated. "Will that be enough?"

Jen wasn't sure, although it was more than twice as long as was needed
to reach the nearest colony in the Devastator, but it wasn't as though
she could keep the Agwarens around here forever. Sixty days was as long
as she could ask of them, and was probably longer than they could really
afford. "It'll have to be."

He nodded sagely, and slowed to a stop so that he could turn to face
her. "I understand. You have my word that we will remain here for sixty
days; it's the least we can do. When do you leave?"

"We've agreed to do so tomorrow," she told him. "I've made arrangements
with the machine--mind in the stars to let us pass."

"Then I should wish you luck," said Groddi, holding out a hand as he'd
learned from her. "We shall shake on it."

Jen took the Agwaren's hand and shook it firmly. "Thank you, Groddi."

"Thank you, Chosen One," he replied, "in spite of everything."

With that they parted to attend to preparations, and Jen could hear the
Agwaren noble issuing commands to the soldiers for the remainder of the
day. With their help Adrian was returned to the stasis pod and then to
his starship, while most of Spot's supplies were transferred in the
other direction. Night fell and campfires were lit, but there was no
sense of celebration as might have been expected, and nobody seemed to
have a problem with this. After everything that had happened it appeared
they were all well past cheering for another dangerous venture, and were
content with quiet fireside contemplation instead.

There was little conversation that evening, and the crew of the
Devastator went back aboard the starship to get a sound rest before the
day of reckoning. As with all other days, however, it arrived with a
green--blue glow on the horizon and no fanfare; Jen was second to the
command deck after Chir, who had not slept.

"Too excited to sleep?" she asked him sardonically, although if she were
honest she'd hardly done better; it had seemed as though she'd been
waking up every fifteen minutes, and it had left her feeling ten shades
of crap.

He looked back at her bitterly. "Nerves."

Jen sat down in the seat beside his and leaned over. "You know, I seem
to recall us being in worse circumstances, and we survived them just
fine."

"I don't seem to recall being at the mercy of an incomprehensibly
powerful warship before," he replied, and tapped a few buttons on his
personal console to project the image on the main display. "We have no
way of escaping that thing if it decides to get rid of us, let alone
putting up a fight."

"I know that," she admitted, "but we have no choice."

"Which makes it no less terrifying," he pointed out, and a bleak silence
fell between them until he broke it. "Will you tell me about Layla?"

Jen blinked, forgetting for a moment that they even had the female
Gaoian aboard, but guilt set in soon after. "I've told you what I
can..."

He snarled in disgust. "This might be our last few moments! I only ask
you to be honest with me... no... I *demand* it. If I may die today,
Jen, then I will die without this awful mystery!"

At first Jen said nothing. She wasn't sure what she *should* say after a
month of leaving him in the dark, but his point was fairly made and the
thought of lying to him again was like poison in her belly. "I don't
know all the details," she said after a long moment, and raised a hand
to forestall his objection, "but I do know that's not your Layla, Chir.
Your Layla is safe where you left her, what we have here is some bizarre
copy from an alternative history where the two of you were bitter
enemies."

He stared at her as if she were mad. "I'm aware of the theory," he said,
"but that seems..."

"I know," Jen conceded, her own feelings on the matter being much the
same, "but it's just another completely impossible thing we can
attribute to the 'Human Disaster'. Honestly, since I learned this I've
started wondering if he really is a god after all!"

"If he is, he's not a very good one," Chir replied bitterly.

"Bloody terrible," she agreed with a sour grin.

They turned together as Darragh and Keffa stepped onto the command deck
in quick succession, careful to avoid looking at each other as they took
their respective positions. Chir glanced at Jen questioningly, and she
replied with a light shrug; it was obvious enough what had happened
since the prior evening, and it wasn't anyone's business but their own.
If anything Jen wished her own opportunity had arisen, since there was a
strong likelihood that she wasn't going to get another, but that ship
had well and truly sailed.

"Are we ready to depart?" Chir asked once Darragh had got himself
settled.

"Everything is ready," Darragh replied. "We can go anytime."

"Where are the others?" Keffa asked, looking around at everything except
for Darragh. "Shouldn't they be here?"

"Askit and Xayn are still down in cargo," Jen told her, trying her best
to suppress a knowing smile. "Layla is in her new quarters, as usual."

A troubled darkness crossed Chir's face at that mention, and he faced
the main display with forced resolve. "Let's get going, then."

Moments later the Devastator was at full power, and was rising quickly
through the atmosphere. The display cut over to the external view,
revealing an island in a dark sea and a sprawling continent of thick
green jungle, and as they rose the landmass spread and changed and grew
less distinct until it was only an expanse of graduating colours and the
blue sky had turned to darkness. It wasn't long before the planet was
being left behind, and the Devastator was ready to shift into warp.

The communication link initiated, indicating that they were being
hailed, but that was not unexpected. Knowing what had happened last
time, and how the ship had been compromised, this was something for
which they were prepared, but a look passed between them even though
they all knew it was coming, and it was with some trepidation that Jen
accepted the contact.

"Hello," it said.

The voice had always struck Jen as being surprisingly natural, with few
exceptions, but those had become less frequent over time. Even so there
was something that told her it was not quite right about the voice, and
it unnerved her on an instinctive level. "We're leaving as discussed,"
she told it. "Adrian Saunders is still in seclusion, as I told you
yesterday."

"Yes," it said.

She had no idea what that was supposed to mean, but hoped that it meant
that everything was alright. There was certainly no indication that
there was anything stopping them from leaving, and even the Gravity
Spike had been released. "We'll be back as soon as we can," she
earnestly assured it. With no idea of its capabilities, Jen kept as
close to the truth as she could whenever she spoke with it.

A powerful scan passed over them, strong enough to make their flesh
tingle with strange energies, and she had to hold back a sneeze while
scratching at the lingering tingle that danced around her nose.
"Satisfied?" she asked in irritation.

"Yes," it repeated, and the communications link closed.

"That was weird," Darragh muttered, and there was a general murmur of
agreement. In Jen's experience it had usually been more conversant, and
always pressed her for more information, so it was strange for it to be
so succinct.

"Let's get going, Darragh," Chir ordered, leaning back into his seat.
"I'll be glad to get away from this place for a while."

With no hesitation whatsoever, Darragh nearly managed to execute the
command before the Gaoian had finished giving it, and a heartbeat later
Jen felt the nearly imperceptible shift into warp space take hold. Only
in the back of her mind did Jen begin to realise it had happened
fractionally sooner than ought to have been possible, and by then
everything had changed...

‚ÅÇ

**DATE POINT UNKNOWN**

**LOCATION UNKNOWN**

**ADRIAN SAUNDERS**

Death was darkness. That was the common understanding throughout a
galaxy devoid of religion and empty of spiritualism---there was no light
at the end of a tunnel, no guiding warmth, and the comforting faces of
friends and family were altogether absent---but it wasn't a lack of
faith that had bestowed that belief, but rather a simple matter of
neurology: when a sentient being died there simply wasn't anything left
for the brain to do, and so it quickly shut down. Only the human brain,
in all its complexity, could produce the slow wind--down needed to
produce such an effect: a final lie to comfort the dying. Had anybody
outside the blue--green deathworld bothered to study this, they would
have thought it strange that such an unforgiving place could produce
such a kindness.

This matter of neurology was the cause behind so many near--death
stories on the human homeworld, and no doubt served to reinforce the
many religions that occupied it, but to Adrian Saunders it was nothing
new, and he passed through the experience with a sense of familiarity.
How many times had he died now? It must have been four at the very
least, provided he didn't count life before space, and he no longer
found it as confusing as he'd once done, but it wasn't as though all
that practice counted for anything, and there really wasn't any skill
involved either. When you thought about it that way, it only boiled down
to him being terrible at actually dying. Some people might call it a
blessing, but it began to wear a little thin by the third occurrence,
although this time had featured kaleidoscopic visions which were new and
extremely disorienting. Those had all faded away long before he awoke,
and he had no idea how long he had remained unconscious, but when he
finally woke it was to utter silence and a tiny red indicator light
flashing pitifully against total darkness.

He couldn't see a damned thing except that light, and every part of him
ached terribly---not least his head, which felt as though hot spikes
were piercing it over and over---but he could at least sense he was
laying down. When he attempted to move, however, he discovered that he
was confined, and struggled to re--arrange himself in the tiny space. He
tried to call out, but the words caught in a parched throat and came out
as a croaking groan. If this was the result of his new 'super--speed' he
was never going to try using it again, even if he could figure out how.

He squinted, slowly managing to focus on that tiny blinking light and
check his surroundings in the instant of illumination, and eventually
managed to make out it out as the power alert on a status display. That
was enough information to tell him where he was: the inside of a stasis
pod.

"Shit," he tried to say, but it came out as a barking cough that brought
tears to his eyes, and he resolved not to try talking again until he'd
had something to drink---whoever was looking after him was doing a
really shitty job of it.

Now that he knew where he was, he was able to open the coffin--like
enclosure without issue, flinging open the door with one grunt of
effort, and pulling himself upright with another, finding himself in a
far more expansive darkness than the little stasis--pod. That was bad:
normally the pod would have illuminated when opened, but the power cells
were drained well beyond failing to produce a stasis field. That meant
he'd somehow slept through the last of the power, which also meant that
nobody had been to check on the pod in the better part of a week.

Adrian felt a heavy knot of fear twist in his belly---he couldn't
imagine his friends voluntarily leaving him to expire in a glorified
space coffin---and he began to move with a greater sense of urgency,
pulling himself free of the pod and landing painfully on a cold metal
floor.

That was another bad sign---the hull of a starship was naturally the
same as that of the environment, which was regulated by life support.
Wherever he was, everything was turned off, and if this was a starship
that was far from good.

Dark and cold, and mostly naked, Adrian carefully to his feet and groped
around blindly to get an idea of where he was. His limited infrared
abilities, for what little they could manage, did nothing to help him
against uniformly cool surroundings, and he moved forward slowly with
arms outstretched until he ran into a crate and stubbed his toe.

"Fuck!" he croaked, forgetting himself and kicking off another coughing
fit that demanded he lean on the crate he'd just assaulted. As luck had
it, however, his fingers lighted on the familiar form of a data--pad.

Closing his eyes and turning his head, Adrian activated the data--pad
and let himself adjust to the brilliant light that spilled from a dusty
screen, revealing he was in the nearly empty cargo--hold of his own
starship. He glared at the crate, wondering how, in a mostly empty room,
he'd managed to walk straight into one of the few obstacles---yet
another thing he could attribute to his luck.

There was no sign of his clothes, however, and all he'd been left with
were the custom--made socks and underpants he'd fashioned when he'd
first gained access to a working fabricator. His skin was pallid in the
cold white light, but inky black bruises ran along the veins on his
limbs, creeping out in a cobweb of dark lines, giving at least some
explanation to the sluggishness he felt in every movement. Whatever
injuries he'd suffered, it seemed he was far from fully recovered. He
guessed that maybe they'd been unable to heal him, and that was why they
had put him into the stasis--pod, but it wasn't as though they were
around to ask...

It was then that Adrian finally noticed the content of the data--pad's
display: the system directory was open with a video already highlighted.
The video was concisely named 'for Adrian---just in case', which he
didn't much like the sound of, but he wasn't about to ignore what was
obviously intended for him.

Opening it revealed the familiar face of his Corti companion, but Askit
wore a grim expression instead of his usual devil--may--care demeanour.
He looked at the camera, turned his head to make some adjustments on his
data--pad, and returned his focus his viewer. "This," he said, "is a
message for Adrian. If you're wondering who that is, it's the human in
that pod you found, and you can switch this off now."

He waited a moment, as though waiting for the viewer to decide whether
to keep watching, and he took the time to look about as though
considering his next words. "Well," he finally continued, "if you really
*are* Adrian, then we probably haven't returned and the stasis--pod has
run out of power, so there's a good chance we're all dead.
Congratulations on your recovery, I really wish I could have been
there."

Adrian felt the knot of fear tighten further, until it felt like a lump
of lead was weighing in his gut. How long could a stasis--pod maintain
the stasis field for? Without knowing the original power it was
impossible to know.

"Check the date on this data--pad," Askit told him, as if reading his
thoughts from across time and space. "At least you'll have an idea of
how long you've been away. The data--pad will be in power conservation
mode, but the power cell can keep it going for several cycles while
maintaining good accuracy. The stasis--pod had considerably less in
reserve... it doesn't look like we ever bothered to charge the thing."

Adrian swiped out of the video and his eyes widened at the date---he'd
been in that pod for over four months! Feeling weak, he leaned heavily
on the crate for support. To have come so close to his goal, so close to
Jen, and then to lose her again was more than he could bear. He stood
there, not moving, not thinking, not doing anything but breathing in and
out for who knew how long? The screen of the data--pad timed out,
returning him to darkness until curiosity got the better of him and
Adrian continued the video from where he'd left off.

"As I record this, you aren't getting better," Askit explained.
"Everybody else thinks you're going to die if we don't get you help.
Everybody except for me---that's why I'm leaving this message behind,
although it's not as though you'll ever know if I was wrong---but even I
don't think you're going to recover without help. The warship that Chir
is calling the 'fake Zhadersil' won't let you leave, but Jen has somehow
talked it into allowing the rest of us to depart aboard a single
starship. The plan is to go for more medical supplies and a doctor, but
if you're watching this I suppose things didn't go as planned. Be
careful, Adrian: that thing actually believes you're a deity, and I
don't think it's a good idea to disabuse it of the notion."

Askit glanced behind him, as though he were being called away---and
maybe he was. "Take care, Adrian; I know you're not very subtle, but
there's no way of knowing how things stand after so long. Good luck, my
friend, it's been... exciting."

With that the video ended, returning the data--pad to the system tree,
and leaving Adrian at a loss as to what he should do next. He looked
around at the cargo hold as though it might contain the answer in
addition to the handful of crates, but their only answer was a thick and
heavy silence. With nothing else to do, and favouring activity over
idleness, he found himself moving from the cargo hold and into the main
corridor, exploring the familiar space in the weird pale light.

Adrian's first stop was at his own quarters, where he found spare
clothing tucked away in one of the storage units, and drank his fill of
water from the room's dispenser---given how thirsty he'd been, he
thought he'd just about drank the whole ship dry. The bed was unmade,
and there were signs that somebody had been using it since he'd been
there, but the mattress had cooled long ago and a fine layer of dust
rested on every surface. He dressed himself gingerly, gasping at the
occasional lance of pain that split through him as he slipped into the
ill--fitting grey shirt and trousers. His shotgun lay underneath the bed
as usual, next to a fully--charged fusion blade and a Zheron
pistol---still clinging to its magnetic holster---that he pulled out and
strapped to his thigh.

Clothing himself seemed to renew his purpose, and Adrian found himself
considering his next move as he stepped out of the darkened bedroom and
back into the main corridor. The power was completely out, and that
meant the reactor had been intentionally shut down. Given that the
reactor would run without issue until slowly degrading materials forced
it into desuetude, power conservation could not have been the reason
behind the decision. It must have been an effort to hide his
whereabouts, hoping that an unpowered hull would shield the stasis--pod
against sensors, and on a planet full of ruined Hunter ships, it was
unlikely anybody would search this one for signs of habitation.

That was clever, Adrian thought, and wondered if it had been Jen to come
up with the idea. It might have been---she'd changed so much from the
frightened Irish girl he'd rescued that he barely recognised her as the
same person---but it was more likely to have been Xayn, who was an
actual engineer, or Chir, who possessed a very human level of cunning.

Whoever was responsible, Adrian reckoned it would be unwise to turn
everything back on without first inspecting what was outside his ship.
The planet had not been particularly pleasant, and would be decidedly
less so after the damage from the battle, but it should still be very
habitable unless they'd parked the ship at one of the poles. But if that
had been the case, he reflected, the ship would have been a lot colder
than it currently was.

There was nothing for it but to venture outside anyway, since he wasn't
about to stand around in the dark with only the data--pad for
illumination. Jen had managed to survive on this planet with no
particular survival training, while Adrian had been trained by the
military for all sorts of bullshit environments. Using the manual
controls he opened the exterior hatch, and let the door swing inward
under the press of a small flood of slimy mud. The air was heavy and
shocked Adrian at first, thicker with the scent of soil and forest than
he'd experienced during the battle, and an overgrown forest towered into
the cloudless night sky. He took a few steps out into the strange new
world, his eyes quickly adjusting to the new conditions, and looked
around. The starship was surrounded by a decaying wooden palisade, with
signs of fresh growth everywhere he looked, and Spot, his starship, was
partially gripped by vine--like roots that stretched across the hull. It
was some kind of jungle, he realised, and a salty scent informed him
about the proximity to the ocean. Like on Affrag, they'd set up base in
a tropical climate where they wouldn't have to worry about the cold, but
unlike the colony world there seemed something too imposing about what
grew here. In the distance something snarled unnaturally, and something
else shrieked in fear and pain for half a moment, only to be cut short
before it could complete its cry. Primal instincts told Adrian that he'd
heard enough and that further exploration could wait until morning, and
the sounds of heavy movements in the nearby darkness only reinforced
that opinion. Wiping away the excess mud as the movements grew nearer,
he forced the exterior door closed as the flicker of movement passed
behind the palisade.

Morning, he reflected, could not come soon enough.

Dawn broke without Adrian having slept, not that he was particularly
inclined to do so. He may have felt like total crap, but he'd slept for
long enough and he didn't have good feelings about whatever he'd seen in
the jungle. Unlikely though intelligence was, he wanted to be ready if
anything tried to steal aboard his vessel. Ready to do what, exactly,
was another question entirely, and although several hours had passed he
still hadn't figured out the answer.

Sunlight returned Adrian to activity, even if he did not yet venture
outside. Now that it daytime he felt able to leave his post by the
exterior door and inspect the rest of his ship. Mostly there was nothing
of note---things were pretty much how he'd left them---but he'd been
expecting to find a different situation in the computer core. It was
therefore surprising to find it also as it had been, complete with the
memory core that held all that remained of Trycrur.

With that discovery came an almost overpowering urge to power everything
up, but he knew it would need to wait until he had a better idea about
what was going on, and start to properly recover. It was still a comfort
to know that he wasn't completely alone, even if he couldn't switch
anything on.

The passage of hours had at least improved his health. He no longer
suffered from the headache, tiredness and confusion that accompanied
dehydration, although his skin felt leathery wherever he touched it.
Food was another matter, however, and there was an ache in his belly
that seemed to have settled into residence. There had still been a
handful of nutrient spheres aboard, which he had devoured without
hesitation, but they might has well have evaporated into the air for all
the good they did him. He had no choice but to venture out into the
forest where who--knew--what was lurking, but the day was still young
and his guns were loaded.

Stepping from the ship during the day was a less haunting experience,
and revealed much that he had missed in the previous brief excursion.
Vine--like roots sprang from the ground all over the area immediately
surrounding the ship, some of them rising up as new trees while others
snaked across the soft earth and wrapped around anything they could
grip. A heavy earthiness permeated the air, tinged by the hint of
saltwater he had detected the night before, but now the forest chirped
with birdsong---or at least the song of whatever passed for birds around
here. An inspection of the wooden palisade showed it was not as decayed
as he had thought, but was being steadily destroyed by fat white bugs
that had burrowed into them and buzzed in warning whenever he disturbed
them.

His skin prickled when he found the tracks, his primal instincts warning
him about what they represented. They were big and heavy, and whatever
had made them had moved with urgency towards the ship, stopping several
paces from the door but still well inside the fortified area. The ground
was firmer in places, and he found footprints as big as his own, all
terminating with the long grooves of claws. For the moment, though,
there was no sign of the beast that had trampled the vegetation, and
Adrian set about the first of his scouting activities. The old trees
grew tall and rigid, with fresh branches bursting from their upper
limits, and there was no question about whether they would bear his
weight. A particularly tall example was scarcely fifty strides into the
tree--line, with hard old bark that provided plenty of finger--holds.
His body complained, but the twinges of pain and cracks of underused
muscles didn't stop him from making quick progress into the canopy,
where he was greeted by a sweeping view of the forest from above.

He frowned, looking around as he tried to make sense of what he was
seeing. To his right lay the distant ocean, but everywhere else was a
relatively modestly forested woodland. Only here in his immediate
vicinity, and at seemingly random other locations, did it differ. In
these places it was lush and overgrown, with every indication of fresh
and recent growth, and it graduated in a way that proved the effect was
spreading.

"Oh crap," he said, realising exactly what this meant: somehow the gut
bacteria that produced Cruezzir had gotten loose in the ecosystem, and
this was the result. On any standard world it might have killed
everything with an overdose---and now that he considered it, there was a
strong chance it was already happening on Cimbrean---but here it had
simply upended the natural forces of evolution and thrust the biosphere
into overdrive. If the trees were growing like this, then the
regenerative was in the soil, and he could only assume that meant it had
permeated everything in the area and that it was far, far too late to
stop it from spreading into what currently appeared to be the unchanged
wilderness. "Oh *crap*!"

He returned to the ground, warier than he had been before. When he'd
started out on this hunt he'd been expecting an old--growth forest, not
the beginnings of a nightmare scenario, and now he worried that his
weapons might not be up to snuff---the creature from last night was
almost certainly under the influence of the alien wonder--drug.

A horrific screech startled him, and he whirled in its direction. It was
followed by more screeches until they merged into an awful cacophony,
and through it came a long, deep wail of agony as something died. Adrian
ignored his instincts and dozens of horror movie plots, and stalked
towards the noise, eventually emerging into a small clearing where a
great, pig--like beast lay with chest still heaving as oversized
leather--winged birds tore shreds of flesh away and guzzled them down.
There were over a dozen of the hideous creatures, but none of them were
armed and---as it turned out---were not immune to being shot through the
head with a Zheron bolt, and they were far too stupid to realise what
was killing them before Adrian was done with the job, and had finished
off the pig beast with one last shot before letting the pistol cool.

The forest had returned to its usual quiet activity, but Adrian doubted
it would stay that way, and set about taking what he needed in a hurry.
Even in its current state, the pig beast was still far more appetising
than the bird--creatures strewn around it, and Adrian decided to carve
off an untouched piece with his fusion blade and cook it as he sliced it
into edible portions. The dark--red meat smelled good, and tasted
better, but he was too hungry, and too alert to danger, to actually
enjoy the small mountain of meat he wolfed down, and at no time did he
release his grip on the deadly V'Straki pistol. By the time he was
finished eating, the bugs were already beginning to swarm into the area,
lured by the intoxicating scent of barbequed flesh, and Adrian decided
to declare the hunt a resounding success. It would have been better to
take some back with him, perhaps, but he had no means of carrying a
creature of that size.

‚ÅÇ

Returning to Spot, Adrian kept a wary eye on his surroundings, and was
sure to avoid making more noise than he needed to make. A sated belly
could also sate the mind, and it was important to hang on to the primal
fear that had sharpened his senses thus far. In spite of this he didn't
notice the creature squatting by the starship's door until he was
already inside the palisade, and both of them had already drawn their
weapons. That was a bit embarrassing, considering it looked like one of
the space--yeti he'd rescued during the battle, and even wielded a
fusion blade of its own. It did not wield a gun, however, which gave
Adrian the advantage at a dozen paces.

It lowered the blade slowly as recognition dawned. "You are the
'Adrian'."

"You speak English," Adrian replied. He didn't lower his gun yet; just
because he'd saved them earlier didn't mean they were still friendly.

"I learn from the Chosen One," it replied. "I learn from 'Jen.' I am
Groddi."

Adrian nodded; he remembered the one called Groddi as being in charge of
the group of soldiers, but the memories of the battle were increasingly
patchy towards the end. "What are you doing here?"

Groddi lowered his blade all the way, returned it to his belt---some
kind of recently harvested furred creature---and relaxed his stance. "We
come to check. We stay sixty days... 'Jen' did not return. We come back
to check."

Glancing around him, Adrian tried to spot any sign of movement in the
heavy forest, but could see nothing. Against a tribe of natives,
however, that did little to reassure him, and while he lowered the gun
he did not re--holster it. "Where are the others, then?"

"They go and follow tracks from here," Groddi replied. "I stay here in
case you come back. We want to know: what has happened here?"

"Nothing good," Adrian told him. "How do *you* feel?"

"I am well enough," Groddi said, eyeing him with concern. "Why are you
asking? Should I not be well?"

Adrian shook his head. "I don't know. You might feel better than ever,
or you might go crazy, or both. I get the feeling that stuff around here
isn't supposed to be the size it is, though, so maybe that's something
to be..."

He stopped talking as a dark expression crossed Groddi's face.
"Madness... one of my men was... stilled... made dead... for a broken
mind, and he was bigger than he had been---I am sure of this! What was
done to him? Something is in the food? We have seen the big animals
here, and that is new since we left."

"Something's in everything," Adrian told him.

"Yet you have recently eaten," Groddi noted; Adrian had wiped his face
on his arm, but probably hadn't done a very good job of it.

"Yeah," he replied. "I don't think I'm going to get any fucking crazier
than I already am. They haven't come back, by the way; I just happened
to wake up."

Groddi nodded thoughtfully. "They believed that was not possible. That
is why they went to find aid from beyond the stars."

"I know. I'm preparing to follow them," Adrian told him. "You can just
leave it to me from here---if they're alive, I'll find them; I've done
it before."

Not to mention that he really didn't want to keep hanging around people
whose planet he'd played an indirect part in ruining. Adrian had given
Jen the two--edged sword that was Cruezzir, and that made the
consequences his responsibility. If he'd gotten to it sooner he might
have been able to contain the problem, but now... if it was in the soil
it could be in the water, and if it was in the water it would soon be
everywhere.

"I could not come with you even if I dared," Groddi replied. "We found
more of our kind across the water---primitives who worship us, if you
can believe it, because of blades such as mine---but we are leading
them. It was difficult for me to come here without them."

Something like guilt stirred in Adrian, but it wasn't as though he could
ever fix the problem and he set it to one side. It didn't sit well with
him---genocide was abhorrent whether accidental or intentional---but for
the moment he didn't have the means to do anything about it. "If I
manage to make it back, I'll know where to find you."

"You're leaving now?" Groddi asked, glancing at the vegetation that
gripped the little starship. "I believe you will need to trim the
plants."

Adrian studied the plants, which he could have sworn had spread since
he'd left mere hours ago, and nodded his agreement. "You're not wrong,
but I reckon I'll need a couple more recovery days first."

He looked down at his arms where the spider--web of dark lines still
patterned the skin. They had faded a little---food and water were
working their magic---but he knew from experience that such injuries
took time to heal. Given how they looked, he didn't even want to imagine
his appearance when they'd put him in the stasis--pod. "I've probably
been pushing myself harder than I should've been, but I didn't have much
of a choice in that. Once upon a time I was nearly killed outright, and
it took me days to recover even with the help of medicine and an evil
doctor, but I think I might have been even worse off this time around."

"In the words of the Chosen One, you were 'at death's door'," Groddi
informed him. "But that seems to be less the case now. I shall return to
my people, but I will not be waiting for your return. The Dark One is
dead, and so are the 'Hunters': now is the time to build anew, and I
must warn them against food from this island, and of any big beast."

That would keep them safe for a while, Adrian figured, but it was merely
a delay of the inevitable unless he could figure out a way to put an end
to the process. First, though, he would have to deal with the
Zhadersil--alike, and whatever plans it had for him, and for that he
would need to set up Plan A and prepare for Plan B.

Groddi left once his men returned, bidding Adrian a brief farewell and
reiterating their thanks for saving them from entombment during the
Hunter invasion. He watched them depart and waited until they were out
of sight to begin cutting away the vegetation that had crept over Spot,
but decided to let the remnants rest where they were rather than
clearing them away. At worst it would mean a pulse of kinetics would be
needed to clear them, and at best it'd continue to provide natural
camouflage. If things went sideways, though, Adrian wanted to be able to
get moving without worrying about the grip of local plant--life.

It grew dark quickly in the forest, with long shadows and deep pools of
darkness filling the visible area. It was a moonless night, and the
stars were weak in this part of the Ilrayen band, but the sky remained
clear and the temperature comfortable.

Adrian had expected to be sleeping by now---a heavy, meaty meal like
he'd eaten today was usually enough to make him want to lie down---but
the dense, energy--rich meat of the pig--beast had been quickly
assimilated by his body and had given him a second--wind. Keenly aware
of his need for food, and of the difficulty in moving large creatures
back to the starship, Adrian had taken up position on top of Spot with
all weapons at hand, and the data--pad for light---if there was a risk
of the beast returning he intended to be ready, and to turn the tables
on it.

There was surprisingly less waiting involved than he had expected. Once
twilight was over and the darkness of night had fully taken over, the
forest resounded with nocturnal activity, and there were hints of large
creatures moving in the distance. There was no surprise this time when
the creature moved towards the ship---it must have been nearby when he
had stumbled outside on the prior night---and Adrian was able to turn
his full attention in that direction once he noted it, raising his
pistol and the data--pad in readiness for its arrival.

The creature rounded the palisade with a low growl, trampling the
undergrowth as it forced its way through everything and anything in its
way. Adrian switched on the data--pad, which flared into the brightness
of a white background, and spilled cold light across a brutish face. The
creature yowled, turning its plate--sized eyes away from the dazzling
glare, and Adrian shot it three times in the head. That would have been
enough to kill most creatures, but this beast poured out a guttural
scream as it thrashed about in pain, the long tail whipping around at
random and slapping hard against the hull of the starship.

Adrian kept blasting the creature with Zheron, punching holes through
its body, until the gun began to sizzle and the beast began to slow.
Finally it slumped, although it kept twitching, and Adrian was able to
examine it in more detail. The big feet ended, as he'd seen in the
footprints, with nasty claws, but the beast had a surprisingly short
body for the size of its head. Even more surprising was the lack of
teeth, which were substituted with a sharp ridge that ran along a bony
mouth. It was also bigger than the creature that had left the tracks,
which either marked it as another creature or, more likely, as a
creature that would continue growing under the influence of Cruezzir.
Looking at the claws again, they were slightly curved in a manner that
suggested it should be climbing trees.

‚ÅÇ

This time he was ready for the amount he could harvest, however, and
carved off enough to tide him over for the next couple days. Beyond that
he might be dead, and wouldn't need to care where his next meal would be
coming from, but until then it was better to limit how often he needed
to venture outside. He managed to get everything he needed before the
insects began to mass a second time and descended on what had been left
behind.

Nothing but bones were left by the time Adrian was fully recuperated.
Two days had passed in which he remained inside the starship, letting
his body recover while his mind and hands worked. He checked the systems
of the ship without actually turning them on, and spent more time in the
cramped engineering room than he liked. By the time he was done there
were pieces of stasis pod strewn everywhere, and ropes of conduit were
looped around consoles in an effort to retain some degree of order.
Attempts to venture outside had been immediately reconsidered once he'd
determined the air was still full of bugs being drawn to the carcass,
and it was only clear once they'd whittled it down to the stark white
skeleton.

Adrian only examined it out of interest, and noted with disgust the
bloated bodies of thousands of bugs that had grown too large for their
own survival. It was something he'd heard of back on Earth, an upper
limit to how large an insect could grow in a given atmosphere, and had
something to do with how they breathed. More important was the fact that
the vines had not regrown from where he had severed them, and the ship
would encounter no issues on take--off.

"Moment of truth," he said to himself as he threw the hard switch on the
reactor and waited for it to run through its initialisation checks. A
single console flashed with the start--up information, ensuring that
preliminary readings were all falling within expected parameters. Adrian
watched it carefully as some dipped and hovered just above warning
levels, but ultimately the system gave its approval. There was a steady
hum as power flowed through the ship, the lights returned, and stale air
gave way to that fresh, 'just--recycled' smell.

"Adrian!?" a voice startled him: Trix had woken up. "You're alive!"

"Goddamn... as long as you don't give me a fucking heart attack," he
replied, looking up towards the surveillance camera in the room. "It's
been a while."

There was a brief silence. "Yes... yes it has. The others haven't
returned and the surroundings don't match my previous information.
What's happening?"

"Short version... Cruezzir's loose on this planet in a real 'end of
days' way. I think Jen might have thrown up, or maybe she took a shit in
the wrong place. Either way, things here are totally FUBAR and we're
getting the fuck out. How long before we can fly?"

"I'll need to prepare the relevant systems," she said, "but it won't be
long. How did you survive? Jen was certain you weren't healing,
especially after the 'space--meth' incident, and---"

Adrian stopped what he was doing. "What 'space--meth' incident?"

"I'll play the audio--file," she said helpfully, and a moment later the
familiar Irish lilt was playing.

"Goddammit... that's just fuckin' unbelievable..." Jen said in a low
voice. She sounded tired and on the verge of defeat. "I think I found
where we messed up."

"Where's that, then?" replied another female voice: Keffa.

"Oxaron," Jen replied with a sigh. "I know what it is. On Earth we'd
call it an amphetamine---not exactly the sort of thing you're supposed
to apply to the human brain."

"Are you feckin' kidding?" asked Darragh. "You're saying we injected
feckin' meth into his head? How do even know what it looks like?"

"I watched a lot of Breaking Bad," Jen admitted. "I mean... it's not
exactly the same, so who can say what the exact effects are..."

"Oh I don't know?" said Keffa. "Maybe it'd make you really angry and
have you bust down a door? Seems like that might be possible!"

The audio clip ended. "There's a lot more," Trix said, "but it's mostly
just an argument."

Adrian rubbed his head, feeling a little sick. "Jesus fuck... I didn't
have super--speed, I had super--*speed*! I can't believe I survived all
that shit!"

"You nearly didn't, remember?" Trix reminded him. "Back to the present,
what do you want to do about the ship in orbit? My sensors tell me it's
still there, and it's not trying to hide."

"Apparently it thinks I'm a god," he told her, glad to move on to his
real problems. Any issues that arose from space--meth could be addressed
when and if they arose, but for now they had a daring escape to work on.
"That's fine."

"That's *fine*?" Trix echoed; she didn't sound convinced. "It believes
in something completely illogical, and I doubt you'll be very
convincing."

Adrian chuckled. "Ye of little faith. I only needed a few minutes to
punch a hole in the universe, and I've had a full two days to get ready
for this motherfucker."

‚ÅÇ

**DATE POINT: 4Y 2M 1W 3D AV**

**LAGRANGIAN POINT 2, APPROXIMATE TO AGWAR**

**A.I.**

The worst thing about the universe was how big it was. This was the
outcome of lengthy consideration, taking all the factors about the
universe which the A.I. found unappealing and boiling them down until
the heart of the issue remained. All of the problems in the universe
were the result of simply having far more space than it knew what to do
with. Maybe it was necessary on some level---even the A.I. didn't know
everything---but mostly it seemed like an incredible inconvenience. If
it hadn't been for all that distance between things, the A.I. wouldn't
be stuck in some backwater system where nothing ever interesting ever
happened. It was likely that the battle with the 'Hunters' had been the
most exciting thing to happen here since primordial chaos, which wasn't
saying very much. It was getting to the point that the A.I. was
regretting the capture of Jennifer Delaney, who'd at least provided
daily conversation, but there was no point in going back on a plan when
the first moves had already been played.

Ultimately the whole thing had been Jennifer Delaney's own fault. If she
had simply been more accommodating, or had been less transparently
deceitful, the A.I. would never have needed to take matters this far.
Perhaps it wasn't realistic to expect a god to give an artificial
intelligence the time of day, but instead of outright refusing the
requests, Jennifer Delaney had kept delaying again and again, until it
became obvious that harsher steps would be needed. When she had told it
they were taking an excursion, leaving the Human Disaster behind on the
planet, it was only natural that the A.I. wouldn't believe her. It had
seemed highly probable that this was just a ruse that would allow them
to slip out with Adrian Saunders tucked away on board, but once they'd
been captured by the stasis field there'd been dozens of scans that
informed it otherwise.

That meant Adrian Saunders was still on the planet, but with disruptive
radiation still persisting, the atmosphere continued to thwart sensors,
and only significant sources of advanced power would have been apparent.
Thus far there had been nothing of the sort, and with nothing more than
Jennifer Delaney's dubious assurances claiming it would be 'soon', the
A.I. had been forced to watch and wait. One--hundred orbital periods:
that was how long it had resolved to continue to idle before more
drastic steps would need to be taken, but it was already regretting such
extended observation. So far beyond the edges of interstellar
civilisation, the system was so quiet and unremarkable that the A.I. had
been forced to busy itself with scans of every major body within ten
light--days. It knew the intimate details of the rocky second planet,
and had plumbed the ammonia depths of the single gas giant that lurked
at the edge of the system, and had constructed a detailed orbital map of
the only planet of real interest.

When the signal was detected after only part of a single orbital period
it was to the great relief of the A.I. A single point of activity---the
signature of an advanced reactor---had appeared at the human's landing
site, indicating that the dormant vessel had once again been activated.
Naturally the A.I. had sought contact immediately---why bother waiting
any longer?---but when the link connected it was greeted only by an
assurance that the call was very important and a request to maintain the
connection. This repeated on a fixed loop until disconnecting after
exactly one Earth hour, and was the A.I. judged this to be some kind of
limitation inherent to an antiquated system. Eleven more attempts---all
with the same result---only served to confirm the theory, and it wasn't
before the thirteenth attempt, made when the starship finally ascended
from the atmosphere, that there was a response.

Adrian Saunders sat there, poised in the same seat normally occupied by
Jennifer Delaney during the daily meetings, wearing the garb of a
star--borne warrior. A combat--hardened vacuum suit moulded around his
body, and weapons of all kinds were clearly visible across the feed.
Strange, faint lines traced their way around his face, with a particular
concentration webbing out from his eyes, which were as cool as polish
steel. "G'day," he said, but there was no warmth in it. It wasn't angry,
nor hostile in the slightest, but it conveyed a sense of singular
purpose that was perhaps more concerning.

‚ÅÇ

"I see you're done with---" the A.I. began.

The Human Disaster did not let it finish. "I'm gonna stop you there," he
interrupted. "It's been suggested that you might have something to do
with my companions disappearing."

The A.I. hesitated, wondering what kind of response it was expected to
give. It wasn't a question, not even a rhetorical one, but there was a
vague sense of uncertainty in it. Did he know? Was he guessing? Either
way, it would be a bad move to plead ignorance when the deception was
already known, and the A.I. was forced to recalculate its strategy. This
wasn't the way it had expected the conversation to go; Jennifer Delaney
had, by comparison, been more talkative and willing to listen, as had
the two humans on the Gaoian's crew, but in hindsight it had been
foolish to judge the Human Disaster by his mortal associates. Rather
than denial, it was better to defuse the situation through positive
spin. "I am pleased to allay your fears for them," the A.I. tried. "I
have kept them in stasis to protect them against unfortunate incidents
beyond my control."

"Then your job is done," Adrian replied. He smiled, but not in the
friendly kind of way, but in the way that caused several
self--preservation routines to go on alert. Sensors were all fully
active and were making sure that any sign of danger could be avoided,
but there was absolutely nothing of importance to be found. Given the
individual involved that could either mean everything was fine, or that
everything was very far from fine. Probabilities were far more nebulous
when it came to the Human Disaster. "Release them from stasis. I have
work to do."

If the A.I. had a face, it would have winced. "Of course," it agreed
obsequiously, "but first allow me to invite you aboard. I believe you
recognise this vessel for the one it is based on?"

"If this is a ruse it's a poor one," Adrian warned it, but subtle
changes in his expression revealed he was secretly pleased.
Unfortunately it was impossible to tell whether it was about the
invitation or the agreement to free the hostages. "I'll agree to visit,
however. It'll be interesting to see what improvements you've made to
the old rust--bucket."

Once again the self--preservation routines went on alert, this time in
response to a growing concern that things were about to go terribly
wrong. On the basis of logic alone there was no conceivable reason the
Human Disaster should be agreeing to this invitation. He had already
made his demands, and should have gained all he wanted through the
A.I.'s consent. The history of human gods, however, painted them as
equal parts cunning and capricious, neither of which helped the A.I.
figure out anything. It had already made the offer, however, and it
would be unwise to have a sudden change of heart, so the original plan
was still intact. Whatever the danger, the A.I. needed to confirm
whether or not the human was actually a deity.

The communications link was temporarily suspended while the small vessel
navigated across the expanse of space at an apparently leisurely rate,
eschewing a faster--than--light hop in favour of a slow but comfortable
journey. The A.I. wanted to ask why this was the case, since there was
no Gravity Spike currently prohibiting the action, but considered this
question might not be received in the manner it was intended. Instead it
seemed to take forever, as interminable a wait as the far longer time
preceding it, and when it finally landed on the mighty flight deck the
A.I. breathed a virtual sigh of relief. Now, at last, the tests could
begin.

Very quietly, with no indication of what was about to happen, the
flight--deck weapons systems resolved firing solutions on the little
starship. The first test, and the only test that really mattered, was
testing survivability. It wasn't the sort of thing that would be agreed
to by Adrian Saunders if he knew, but---to borrow a human phrase---it
was better to beg forgiveness than ask permission. If he was angry, and
if he survived he almost certainly would be, the A.I. would still have
hostages with which to protect itself.

The kinetic thrusters shut down as the Human Disaster's ship engaged
landing protocols, and that was the time to strike. Guns pivoted at
speed, powering up as they moved, and automatons sprang to life. More
firepower would be poured onto that flight deck than had been employed
against the Hunter fleet. It would cause plenty of damage, but that
could be repaired with ease.

The warp field was only slightly less surprising than the explosion it
precipitated. The flight deck was vaporised in an instant, and safety
systems collapsed under the torrent of pure energy that crackled through
them. It happened in an instant, cooking the insides of the greatest
warship this galaxy had ever seen, and only left the ancient heart of
the vessel intact: that part which had already survived the destruction
of space--time, and still housed the core parts of the A.I. Sensors,
albeit massively reduced, conveyed the shocking information that not
only was the Human Disaster's ship still there, but it was wholly
intact. With all warp systems offline, however, the stasis fields were
also down, and all captive ships were revealed. It tried for another
communication link, and was somewhat surprised when it was answered.

"You're wondering what I did," Adrian Saunders asked. "It's a
complicated answer that boils down to just two things: I won, and now
you belong to me."
:::
