# S - Fields of Fire
***Salvage***

---

**Date Point: 3Y 9M 1W 6D AV**

**Groddi's Encampment**

**Jennifer Delaney**

Jennifer Delaney had surprised herself by not spending more than a
single night in the Dark One's lair -- even as she'd fallen asleep she'd
expected to renege on that particular promise -- though she couldn't be
certain she'd only slept for a single day. All she knew was that when
she woke the sky above her had been the emerging blue of dawn, and the
phrase 'I just fell asleep next to an anti--matter bomb' had been the
first thought to run through her head. Just another thing an exhausted
mind could end up getting her killed.

That prospect and a quick breakfast of nutrient spheres had been all the
motivation she'd needed to make the terrifying climb back up the inside
of the Lair, spend a few moments resting, and then proceed to get back
down the mountainside as quickly as humanly possible towards the army.
Help, if it did come, could find her there.

For that she did have a plan. Jen hadn't left the Lair completely empty
handed, not when there were so many things to take; she'd taken a pair
of fusion blades, figuring that they were useful even if she didn't end
up fighting the Hunters head--on, a data--pad that would let her connect
back to the systems in the Dark One's Lair, a small amount of the
nutrient spheres to tide her over for her journey back, and -- thank God
for small miracles -- a damned area Translator.

It had taken less time to climb down than it had to climb up, and it'd
only been a full day and a half of hurried travel before she'd strode
into Groddi's encampment with far more apparent energy than she actually
felt. After all, she was now more 'the Chosen One' than ever, it was
important to keep up appearances. Those who hadn't believed she'd killed
the Dark One before she'd left would certainly believe it now that she'd
returned, and had returned with her prizes.

"You're back sooner than I had expected," Groddi said as he met her in
her tent. He looked tired, as though he'd not slept in days, and perhaps
he hadn't. He hadn't entirely believed that the Dark One was gone in the
first place, and had only had his suspicions confirmed by Jen conveying
that the Dark One's mind, or spirit, had indeed escaped elsewhere. The
army had certainly seemed more prepared when she'd returned, both better
armed and far more vigilant, and as she'd returned she'd seen in their
eyes a kind of questioning hopefulness. "My scouts returned only a short
time ago, stating they could not follow you any further. I had them
beaten. What happened atop the mountain?"

"The Dark One left a trap," Jen replied, glad that she would no longer
have to repeat her words and endure any more tiresome games of charades.
As a girl she'd enjoyed the game, and she'd probably enjoy it still if
she hadn\'t needed to use it to teach an Alien to speak butchered
English. "Obviously I didn't fall for it."

Groddi's eyes widened. "You're speaking my language---no... you're
speaking both languages. What sorcery is this?"

"Something I got from the Dark One's lair," Jen replied, holding up the
translator. "Makes life a bit easier. No idea *how* it works; something
something alien techno--babble something something... probably."

"That isn't an explanation," Groddi replied, staring at the small
object. "But I don't believe it was supposed to be one. Is it safe?"

Jen frowned, looking at the object. "I've got one of these -- well,
something like this -- inside my head. I can't see this thing having any
side--effects if that one doesn't, and from what I understand the one in
my head is a bit of an 'alien--bodge--job' as far as installations go."

"Inside your head?" Groddi repeated; he was staring at her now, trying
to see where an object like that might fit inside her skull, or perhaps
evidence that it had been inserted there at all. "That's normal then...
is it?"

"Didn't seem very normal at the time," Jen admitted; even now the
prospect of getting things plugged directly into her brain disturbed her
a little bit, although at least it wasn't something that could be seen
from the outside. Though she'd never admitted it, Old Jen had even been
a little freaked out by the possibilities of 'mind--control' and
what--not, at least until she'd gotten used to it. "Everyone else who
does any off--world work seems to have them, though, just because
they're so bloody useful."

Groddi grunted, still staring. "I can see how that would be the case.
What was this trap?"

"A bomb," Jen replied, not wanting to go into detail unless she had to.
"We needn't worry about that for the moment, though. Are your men ready
for a fight?"

"They'd better be," Groddi said, snorting out a humourless laugh, "I've
been drilling them for weeks now, and they're better armed than they've
ever been since the last big war. Swords, pikes, and lots of crossbowmen
with plenty of ammunition. Getting up close with those dark minions
seemed a losing prospect at the time, so I thought perhaps some ranged
weaponry might be more suitable."

Jen nodded. It made sense, after all; the Agwarens were too slow in
close--quarters to have any chance against the machines, but they were
strong enough to use powerful crossbows. "That will probably help
against the Hunters as well."

"The cannibals from the stars?" Groddi asked, looking at her dubiously.
"The ones more dangerous than the Dark One?"

"There'll be about a million of them," Jen exaggerated -- or at least
hoped she exaggerated -- "that's why they're more dangerous. They'll
come down here in a huge bloody swarm, looking for me and somebody else
who's supposedly looking for me, too. That won't stop them from killing
and eating the rest of you, though, because that is *what they do*."

What doubt Groddi had slowly shifted into worry, his eyes narrowing as
he thought about what that would mean, and how best to fight it. "What
more can you tell me about them?" he asked. "Their tactics, and
weaponry? How can we fight them?"

"I've never seen them launch a ground assault," Jen replied. "Most of
what I've seen and heard was inside confined spaces. They move in
groups, mainly use ranged weapons that'll slap hard enough to sting you,
or these---" she picked up a fusion blade and sliced directly through
her desk with absolutely no effort, "---which you probably don't want to
tangle with. In a pinch they'll also throw these little bombs that don't
actually explode but just make everyone around them horribly dead. They
also have ships with weapons that will blow huge holes in the ground,
and will kill who even stands near it just from the blast--wave... I
think that's just about everything."

No reply at first, Groddi just stood there silently staring at the
fusion weapon with eyes agog, and Jen began to wonder if he'd even
continued to listen after she'd given her little demonstration.
Eventually he tore his eyes away from it, frowning as he considered his
words. "It seems to me that we'd best *not* fight out in the open where
they can just drop these 'death bombs' on us with impunity or just blow
us into pieces from the sky. Unless you have some kind of counter to
that?"

Jen shook her head to indicate that she did not.

"Unfortunate. Then I think that---"

They were interrupted by the panicked shouts of soldiers calling both of
them outside, which they did after only a brief glance at each other --
Groddi's asking "Do you know what this is?" and hers answering that she
had no idea. When they got outside, however, everybody was staring in
the same direction: the mountains.

At least they were staring at where the mountains had used to be. What
was there now was a massive, fast--expanding cloud of dust and debris
that was erupting high into the sky. High enough, Jen thought, that some
of it might actually hit them where they stood.

The ground itself swelled towards them like an enormous earthen wave,
far off for the time--being, but leaving nothing but devastation in its
wake. There was no escaping that, and no escaping the sound either; the
best they could do was mitigate the damage.

"Everybody on the ground, away from anything that could accidentally
kill them. Hands over their ears," Jen ordered, and looked to Groddi to
convey it as well. He didn't, instead he just stared slack jawed at the
scene before them like almost everyone else, until she punched him hard
in the arm and repeated the instruction.

The entire army was shortly on the ground, weapons sheathed and made as
safe as possible in what little time they had, and Jen had a few brief
moments to think in which she recalled that sound travelled faster
through a solid medium than it did through the air, so it was the
thunder in the ground that reached them first.

It roared like a freight train that was full of stone, so loud that it
sounded ear--splitting even through her covered ears. The ground
trembled with it, the tents and trees around them shaking as it rolled
through the ground, and then came the shockwave.

The ground raised up beneath her suddenly, splitting and cracking, and
crumbling. Agwarens, and Jen along with them, fell into the crevices it
made as it rose. She forgot the noise of it as she reached for purchase
with one hand and grabbed Groddi with the other, and nearly had the
sense knocked out of her at the volume of it all.

She hauled him over to safety, and then began to climb to the surface,
frantically gesturing to Groddi that he should do the same. They were
still rising, for the moment, but that'd soon end. The ground would fall
again, and when it did it would crush or bury them when the crevices
sealed themselves. Jen grabbed at the roots of the big tree that held
together this particular section of the ground and scrambled up it,
cresting the top just as the ground began to fall.

She had to grab a branch to stop herself from plummeting into the sky.
Groddi, who'd been behind her, had stopped climbing and now held on with
terror to the roots near the lip of the crevice. All around her there
were soldiers drifting up into the air, or holding on to things, or
slowly lifting out of the holes in the ground.

It all came down like the biggest clap of thunder that Jen had ever
heard, and pain split through her head. She screamed, and was hardly
able to hear it, but she wasn't the only one. It looked as though the
Agwarens -- those who weren't buried and who were still conscious,
anyway -- were suffering just as badly.

The branch that Jen had held onto snapped after a moment longer, and she
dropped to the ground. It was only her Cruezzir--boosted reactions that
let her account for it and not end up breaking her knees.

She helped Groddi out of the loose dirt first, then looked at the
destruction around them. The encampment had been annihilated; carts and
tents were either missing or half--buried and broken, helmets and
weapons were all that was left of a third of the army, and another third
were either trapped, or wounded, or both. She could tell just by looking
that Groddi was assessing it just the same, and wondering how the hell
they were going to face the Hunters when this was what they were left
with.

She looked to where the mountains had been, and wondered how long before
the debris became a problem for them, guessing it wouldn't even be an
hour before the stones began to fall. There wasn't even anywhere they
could retreat to anymore; there was no way of getting back to the city
in time, even if it hadn't been entirely destroyed by the shockwave.
There was also the coming sound to contend with, something she could see
rippling across the distant trees that had somehow managed to survive,
bending them like reeds where it could, and breaking them where it
couldn't. She abandoned the idea of covering her ears as a lost cause,
and returned to pressing herself against the ground and holding fast to
the thickest exposed tree root she could find. Groddi, perhaps just
wanting to know what he needed to do now, copied her without questions.

It came on a furiously hot, howling wind that was filled with the
crumbling dirt and grit of the previous disaster, and it sounded exactly
like what she would expect the last, tortured scream of a mountain to
sound like. The tree that had just moments ago saved her life now bent
under that wind until it cracked and then broke, its leaves tearing
themselves free to join the rest of the debris. She could feel the force
of it against her as well, straining to lift her up, and all around them
the unconscious and unprepared were caught by it and thrown hard across
the ground. She doubted that many of them would be ready for a fight
once this was over. Perhaps none of them.

When it was finally over -- a matter of seconds that felt far longer --
Jen lay there for a moment, coughing on the grit that she'd breathed,
aching all over, and closing her eyes against the pain in her ears.

*That was a big bomb*, she thought to herself, and was glad she hadn't
stuck around any longer. Had there been some hidden timer the Dark One
had added, just in case she didn't try to disarm it? Had something
simply gone wrong with the bomb itself, or was anti--matter just
inherently unstable? Had help arrived, and set it off by mistake? Or had
it been the Hunters?

She opened her eyes and looked around for the data--pad. It had been in
her tent, and her tent had been half--buried by the shockwave, but not
so badly that she wasn't able to dig it out. She was relieved to find
that the data--tab, while cracked on the casing, still seemed to work.

Tapping through the logs the datapad had received immediately prior to
the explosion, she skimmed the routine reports and updates for anything
of note. Movement sensors identified six intruders, she picked out.
First on the upper platform, then on the second. No sign of a ship
landing, but could have been cloaked...

That wasn't enough to know it was Hunters, but it was enough to know
that she needed to be watching the skies, and to keep her technology
turned off. Those things could be scanned for, after all, and every
minute she could evade capture was a minute she could spend on planning
and preparation, and letting her body heal. But the first thing she
needed to do was to find any Agwaren who could still stand and go find
something that resembled safety. Not everything, after all, could have
been destroyed.

---

**Swarm of the Brood That Stalks, Orbit of Agwar**

**Alpha of the Brood That Stalks**

Pure joy. There was little else that could describe the discovery of a
primitive species of Deathworlders, with meat nearly as rich as that of
a human. There was something special about humans, of course, something
built into their innate defiance, perhaps, but some of that was here as
well. It was a most pleasing discovery, and there were by all accounts
millions of them to be harvested.

The Alpha of the Brood That Stalks bit into yet more of that wholesome
flesh, letting the delicious red juices flood over its maw with a
shudder of delight. Who could have predicted a second Deathworld species
like this? Deathworlds would undoubtedly require more investigation for
this greater prey once the humans had been purged, and the Alpha would
eventually need to report on it to the Alpha--of--Alphas, but for now
this discovery was its own and it would reap a fine harvest.

This Prey was primitive, even by the standards of pre--contact species.
What the Alpha had seen of them showed they worked with natural
materials, and harvested them manually. Little better than the animals
that held no sapience at all. And yet it was their basic industry that
had revealed that they even existed, the pollution they made to smelt
their metals, to cook their food, and to light their halls. Ironic,
perhaps, that had they been only slightly more primitive they might have
escaped notice altogether.

The Alpha of the Brood That Stalks let the rich fluids gently flow down
its gullet and was glad that they had not, and looked forward to the
praise it would undoubtedly receive from the Alpha--of--Alphas once it
made this place known to it. First, though, it had to find the human, or
at least the perpetrator behind the anti--matter bomb, and destroy them.

Frustration mixed in with the ecstasy supplied by the meat. It was still
far too early to be seriously concerned about that not happening, but
the Alpha found itself pondering the question nonetheless. The
Alpha--of--Alphas would be displeased by the failure, but maybe the
discovery of these new Deathworlders would mitigate that fury. Either
way, there was still much scanning and hunting to be done before the
Alpha would accept failure, and it had begun to wonder if the one
responsible might be hiding in the vicinity of the explosion.

That, it thought, would be true cunning. Something a human might do,
because the more traditional Prey were certainly neither brave nor
clever enough to try it, but only if they knew what an anti--matter
explosion would do to the area around it. It was therefore exactly the
sort of thing, the Alpha reasoned, that the hated Adrian Saunders would
try.

Fear ran through it at that thought, but it hid the emotion from its
subordinates. The Cursed Human was not supposed to have been here yet,
and while no major technology had shown up on the Swarm's scans it
didn't mean anything if he was also using Hunter cloaking technology.

The area immediately around the anti--matter explosion was heavy with
the sorts of weird radiation that could only be achieved through the
annihilation of matter. It wasn't the sort that killed, although that
would cause troubles with the sensors as well, but it *was* the sort
that worked very well to make them unreliable until it dissipated. That
was why there hadn't been much searching in that region, because nobody
would set a trap and then hide away in the very area that would be
devastated by it. Nobody rational, in any case.

The more the Alpha thought on this, the more it became convinced that it
was the case. Excitement mixed around with fear at the possibility of
outsmarting the Cursed Human, of finding him while he was still making
his preparations, and of being the one who would -- if not kill him --
then devouring his flesh.

The Alpha put down the flesh, it no longer tasted so rich. Not in
comparison to that of Adrian Saunders.

*+Concentrate all searches on the area affected by the explosion+*, it
ordered the ships who had already descended. *+Ignore the new Prey until
the one we came for is found. Meat to the Maw!+*

---

**Date Point: 3Y 9M 2W AV**

**Westbound from Groddi's Encampment**

**Jennifer Delaney**

Jennifer Delaney, mid--twenties and already too old for this shit. She
hid under the longcloak as yet another Hunter ship swept through the
air, happy at least that the air had been ionised enough by the
explosion to now crackle around them as they travelled through it. It
was possible they didn't even know it was happening, which was probably
the only bit of good luck she was going to get today, and possibly even
for the rest of her life. Those might be about the same length of time.

The cloak she wore was of the kind that had been used by the Agwarens
for centuries when they moved above ground, a simple yet effective
camouflage to prevent them from being seen by the minions of the Dark
One who would have killed them on sight.

But of the three dozen she journeyed with -- for that was all that
remained of the army, once you discounted those too injured to do so --
only she was still capable of hearing the Hunters coming. Only she was
still capable of hearing bloody anything, it seemed, as her ear--drums
had recovered swiftly with the aid of the Cruezzir in her veins, and the
whole lot of them now looked to her to indicate when they should hide
and waited for her tap to give the all--clear.

Every one of them wore the look of an empty man who knew he'd now lost
everything he'd had, all of them knowing that there was no way their
homes and families had survived the onslaught of the land itself. They
came with her now for the chance of vengeance alone, to make a bloody
mark upon the teeming masses of their enemies and die listening to the
wailing laments of those they'd killed.

They'd been aiming for the foothills to the west, where Groddi had told
her there'd been a lot of natural caverns and even some tapped--out
mines. There was a chance that it was far enough away that it hadn't all
been destroyed, and it was on that chance that every man who'd come with
them had taken up sword, shield and crossbow along with as many supplies
he could carry. Getting there, however, would take another two days at
this pace, and Jen wasn't sure how long they could last before the
Hunters finally spotted them.

She rose from under the cloak once the crackling had moved off into the
distance, and tapped the others to let them know that the danger had
passed. They all rose, careful to look around as they did, and quickly
gathered up their equipment. It was a process they'd all learned long
ago, and today they'd had plenty of opportunity to practice it.

The first any of them knew of the ambush was when they were stepping
directly into it. A dozen Hunters -- not usually the sort to sneak
around -- must have crept up on them while they were taking cover, and
now sprang forward at them with kinetic rifles spitting force to
distract and intimidate the Agwarens. They carried with them fusion
blades, something that worried even Jen, and came at the soldiers with
alarming speed.

Three Hunters went down before they knew what was happening, crossbow
bolts punching straight through their guts and throwing them backwards
with the force of it. They scattered, obviously shocked that there'd
even been resistance, but didn't retreat.

Another two went down under the bolts of those that had not yet fired
before the battle was joined, and thanks to an earlier demonstration
from Jen they all knew what to expect. Shields went up, a sacrifice to
put them out of reach of the deadly weapons, but more than one Agwaren
screamed as a limb came away with it.

Swords came down, and spears thrust from behind, slicing and skewering
those Hunters who'd made the first assault. They went down slashing
wildly with their fusion weapons, chopping at the spears that thrust
again and again. The wise few who'd remained at the back to keep up the
barrage of kinetics watched this in horror, and looked in danger of
falling back. They never even saw Jen coming.

She'd slipped around the side of the fight when the Hunters had been
focused on the crossbowmen. Too small to look a threat and too wrapped
in her cloak to be known as human, she'd been ignored in favour of the
soldiers who were visibly armed.

All at once she came at them like a demon, the hood of her cloak
catching the wind and flying back to reveal the soft human features,
short crimson hair and snarling lips, the deadly--sharp steel that the
Agwarens had forged for her now flashing from under the cloak and
cleaving through one and then another.

The last of them turned as ichor splashed and its fellows jerked and
gurgled their mindless death rattles. Jen saw its eyes as it realised
what was coming for it, saw it try to raise the fusion blade to fend her
off, and saw the certain knowledge that it was in vain.

It hardly had the chance to move before she'd killed it, sending its
head and blade--arm spinning to the ground; the fusion blade itself
landed in the snow and immediately turned it to a small cloud of steam.
Jen picked it up, and displayed to the Agwarens still watching her how
they could turn it off. She then stood watch while Groddi distributed
them amongst those who remained of his men. Three soldiers dead, and
another five who'd lost their shield arms but were still willing to put
their sword arm to good use. Now, they reasoned, they'd have fusion
blades to make the Hunters think twice.

They were surprised that there was no pain or bleeding from their
amputations -- even with the translator it was hard for Jen to describe
how the nerves would have been killed by the heat that also sealed the
wound -- but they still tore apart the cloaks from the dead to use them
as bandages to bind their stumps. It was better to do that and not need
it, Groddi had reasoned, than to let exertion open the wounds and have
them bleed out before they could die in battle.

Jen had just nodded, and let them do it while she stood watch. There was
no argument against it, and there was nowhere else for the wounded to go
that didn't end with them dead and devoured.

Some of them even had the idea to bind a fusion blade to the end of one
of their broken spears, figuring that when it came to fighting the
monsters it was better to do so at a distance. The results were
makeshift, but functional, and the hilt held fast to the shaft even with
the most vigorous movement. It wouldn't hold long in a proper battle,
but in spite of their size the Hunters were quick enough that any battle
lasting more than a few seconds was always going to end in their favour.

For now, however, they had to keep moving.

---

**Date Point: 3Y 9M 2W 2D AV**

**Swarm of the Brood That Stalks, Orbit of Agwar**

**Alpha of the Brood That Stalks**

It had taken an unacceptably long time for the underlings to realise
that one of the ground teams had gone quiet, and even longer before they
had notified the Alpha of the Brood That Stalks. There had been
punishments for the delay, swift and severe, and the replacements were
under no illusions about how long it should take them to make such
reports.

The Alpha knew the reason for the delays, it might have even attempted
the same if the positions had been reversed. It would have forgiven that
delay if there had been results, and its underlings had gambled their
lives on that fact. They had lost.

The ground teams were being hampered by the expected factors. The
weather was far colder than a habitable planet had any right to be, and
ice blanketed the ground where the wave of destruction had not
overturned it. The effects of the blast still interfered with the more
advanced scanning equipment, forcing the groups to rely on visual
identification. The terrain itself was also covered with thick, bushy
trees and scrub, where rocks hadn't plummeted from the sky to destroy
them, and line of sight was limited. The same problems were being
experienced by the aerial search, who'd managed to locate the dead and
dying remains of some kind of army but nothing else. The cold would at
least serve to keep that meat fresh until the search was successful.

So it was the disappearance of the ground team that should have been
brought to the Alpha's attention earlier. There'd been casualties in the
harvesting of the Deathworlders, that was always a risk, but never had
an entire team simply vanished. It had to mean something, and the Alpha
had further concentrated the search to that area. They'd found the
remains of the Broodlings and three dead natives, with signs that there
had been many more than that. All of the fusion weaponry had been taken,
much to the Alpha's chagrin, but it now saw how this group of Prey had
remained hidden for so long: the ice--white cloaks blended in with the
ground perfectly. They were even made of some naturally occurring
insulator that considerably reduced the passage of infra--red radiation.

That was clever, and the Alpha of the Brood That Stalks could appreciate
its cunning and effectiveness. It would not save them, of course, but
there was far greater pleasure taken in harvesting Prey who resisted and
used their wits to try and survive until the inevitable end.

There was not, however, any significant indication that the human had
been amongst them. None of the dead Broodlings had been killed with the
advanced technology the Alpha would have expected a human to employ,
just flying pointy sticks, and slashing and stabbing weapons.

But to have had it all happen so quickly... that had to mean something.
How had the Prey resisted so effectively? How had they only lost *three*
of their number when the slaughtered Broodlings had been prepared and
trained for dealing with Deathworlders? It was an anomaly, and it was
too close to the explosion site to be a coincidence.

The Alpha of the Brood That Stalks thought it was about time the
remainder of the fleet joined the rest, to scour that territory as
quickly and thoroughly as possible, and to overwhelm whatever resistance
remained with numbers and strategy.

It was about to issue the command when it noticed the sensor report now
flashing on its console. The gravity spikes were up, as was standard in
this sort of quiet operation -- it prevented warp travel as well as
interstellar communication -- and something had just been deposited in
local space. Something cloaked.

Something that the entire fleet could barely detect, suggesting Hunter
technology. The Humans used that, the Alpha knew, with both the Pirate
Queen and the Cursed Human using the Hunter vessels they stole. But it
was moving fast, far too fast to be a Hunter ship, and it was blazing
its way into the atmosphere before the Alpha of the Brood That Stalks
could even issue its orders.

It had to be a Human, the Alpha knew, though at this point it was hard
to guess which. It sent orders to those ships already down there to
engage when able, and orders to those in orbit to amass above. It didn't
have a chance to command them to descend before something else burst out
of warp: it was something much, much bigger than the cloaked ship from
moments before; it was something not cloaked at all, and it was
something that had the shape and configuration of a vessel that the
Alpha of the Brood That Stalks never wanted to see again.

That ship he recognised as the ancient vessel known as the Zhadersil.
That ship was a thing of the Cursed Human, and to the Hunters it had
become a symbol of calamitous defeat. Like the human, though, it was
supposed to be dead and far too radioactive to set foot on.

Like the human, that did not appear to stop it from coming *here*.

A surge of panic gripped the Alpha of the Brood That Stalks as the
details of its firepower scrolled -- scrolled! -- down the sensor
report. Alerts went off as an active scan hit the fleet, and pinged them
all.

*+Ships in orbit+*, it commanded, trying to convey a confidence it did
not feel, *+engage the warship! Full force!+*

---

**Aboard Spot, in atmosphere of Category 11 Death World**

**Adrian Saunders**

"What the fuck happened down there?" Adrian asked, looking at the video
feed that Trix was shooting to his battlesuit. There was a massive
crater at the heart of a mountain range and a ring of destruction that
spread around it like God himself had decided it all needed fucking up.
From a higher altitude it had been possible to see the massive hole in
the otherwise consistent cloud layer, and the whole place was
interfering with the ship sensors.

"These readings are consistent with an anti--matter explosion," Trix
replied after a moment. "Our sensors are going to be next to useless,
and so is our cloaking device. We're having trouble sensing more than
(ten kilometres) as it is!"

"Can you survive this?" Adrian asked, suddenly concerned. He wasn't
about to let these guys get themselves killed just so he could reach a
convenient drop--off point.

Trix laughed. "Can *you*? We'll just have to keep moving, and I'll
probably be able to evade their shots. We won't be able to land,
though."

Adrian checked the pair of kinetic thrusters he'd built to pull himself
through water. He'd tied them together with some of the power conduit,
and while by themselves they didn't have a hope of letting the suit fly,
they'd decelerate his fall nicely if he engaged the suits Flight Mode at
the same time. "Thought you might say that, just drop me off close to
the ground near that huge fuck--off swarm of ships down there."

"I thought you might say that," Askit chimed in. "You do realise this is
exactly Plan B all over again? That's exactly the thing we wanted to
*stop* doing!"

"I enjoy Plan B," Xayn replied. "It is very... straightforward."

"I'm not exactly happy about it," Adrian said, although he did feel that
slightly dangerous thrill from the danger of it all. "I'd wanted to get
in and out before these arseholes even got here, but it looks like we're
only here in time to kick some arse instead."

"And you think that Jen is at the centre of that swarm of ships?" Askit
asked, realising that they had no way of knowing that. "There are
Hunters all over the ground as well! This is madness, Adrian!"

"If she's anywhere, she's there," said Adrian. "And I've already come
this far. What sort of hero gets to the monster then nopes the fuck out
of there?"

"I would imagine that would be the live variety," Askit spat with
growing anger; he'd made no secret about not liking any of this plan,
but he'd given up arguing against it and he hadn't opted out. "But it's
fine because while you've been messing around with your suit I've been
busy broadcasting our precise position straight to the Hunter combat
information network."

Adrian blinked. "You've... what?"

"What sensors we have left indicate mass--driver gunfire approximately
(half a kilometre) to our starboard," Trix reported.

He still sounded angry, but Adrian could hear the evil little grin in
Askit's next words. "Well, perhaps 'precise' wasn't quite the right word
for it."

"They're going to be relying on visual confirmation to hit us," added
Trix, "once they realise what's happening. I don't think *they're*
equipped to manually aim at anything moving this fast, though."

There was no missing the implication there. "But you are."

"I'll be opening fire once we get a bit closer," Trix said by way of
confirmation. "I'll do a few sweeps and we'll get out once they realise
what's going on."

Adrian looked down at Xayn. "What about you?"

The V'Straki engineer hadn't built himself a battle suit, though he had
collected a number of Zheron shotguns and now had eight of them
holstered over his body. "I will remain here to defend the Spot," he
said, patting the side of the holster nearest his hand. "If we are
extracting Jen, then we will need to land, and somebody will need to
make sure the extraction point is secure."

"I'll keep you advised on the extraction point," Trix added. They'd
already discussed that part of the plan in brief, but had deemed it too
difficult to make any hard decisions while there were so many unknowns.

"Do not forget to mark Jen as a friendly once identified," Xayn reminded
him. That had been the first thing they'd done once they'd finally
hauled the suit up to the surface of Affrag, something that would
prevent unfortunate mishaps should the suit's aim--assist systems render
a little too much assistance. Everything was an enemy to the V'Straki
combat system until designated otherwise, something that provided a
certain level of insight into their mindset at the time they'd designed
it.

It was not something that Adrian was likely to forget, however, given
what the suit's weaponry had managed under testing. "Don't worry, I'll
remember."

You didn't need to see the sensors to know that they were getting close
as the heavy thunk--thunk of Spot's mass--drivers started up; it was
something you could feel as it vibrated the whole ship. Adrian could see
the results through Trix's video stream being fed to a small window to
the top left of his helmet display: streaks of red--hot air ending in
shattering explosions as they found their targets, while thousands more
came back up towards them with every shot a miss. Hunter ships lurched
and began their fall, while Spot turned into a dive and pushed hard
towards the ground. There was no way the intertial dampeners were going
to compensate for all of that, and they all had to hold something for
balance as the ship pulled up suddenly and shot above the tree--line.

The dying Hunter ships were just now crashing up ahead of them, erupting
into massive plumes of blue fire where they impacted and setting the
forest alight. Those must have been big ships, Adrian saw, for it to
look like slow motion from this distance.

"You're going to drop me off over there, aren't you?" he asked Trix.

"Seemed like it'd probably be clear of Hunters for the moment," she
replied. It did seem likely, given the scale of the destruction. "It'll
give you a few moments to get your footing, and the smoke will mask your
arrival."

"Understood," said Adrian, and took up position at the cargo door, both
kinetic thrusters activated and Flight Mode enabled. The door lowered
for him, and the burning forest flashed by below him. The wreckages spat
flames and smaller detonations as they settled into rest.

"On my mark," Trix announced, and Spot began a hard turn. It was at that
moment of lowest velocity that Trix gave the order, and Adrian stepped
from the door with a half--muttered prayer.

For once everything worked how it should, and he began to drift slowly
towards the ground with plenty of time to survey the scene. Spot sped
away in a flash, spewing roaring streaks of cannon--fire up towards the
swarm of ships above, while the ground trembled and burst with the
return fire. More ships were falling as well, though none that were
right above him, and each of them hit the ground with an ear--splitting
boom; Adrian gave the suit a quick order to turn the volume down, just
enough to make it tolerable, and looked out across the battlefield.
Whatever this world had looked like before the Hunters had arrived, it
was beginning to look a lot like Hell.


