# S - Plan C from Outer Space
***Salvage***

---

Adrian Saunders was holding eleven armed Corti soldiers hostage on their
own ship. They didn\'t seem happy about it, but when the alternative had
been slaughtering them with impunity they were at least understanding,
and were informed enough about human capabilities to be very
cooperative.

He had decided that Plan B wasn\'t working for him.

It had sounded straightforward when Treoffa had explained it. The
Zhadersil would be raided by Corti and eventually more Hunters if he was
believed to still be on board. That was why Plan A had been to have the
Corti transportation ship eject the stasis pod into space for the
Hunters, thus writing him off as an unfortunate loss, while in actual
fact the Hunter ships would have been piloted by his comrades who would
then pick him up and return him to the Zhadersil.

Plan B was for when that plan failed, and he had to pilot the entire
Corti vessel back after exterminating its crew. In this case the
official Corti records would indicate that the human they were after had
taken control of the vessel and was taking it who--knew--where. Not
ideal, but so long as Treoffa could shut down the locator beacon the
Directorate wouldn\'t have any reason to go looking for it in the
vicinity of the Zhadersil.

But unlike the Hunters, the Corti weren\'t being actively aggressive,
and mostly seemed terrified when he leapt out of hiding to kill them.

It was beginning to bother him, and that\'s where Plan C had come from.

"So," he said to them, waving his sword back and forward between them
and causing them to shrink back in fear. "This is real fucking cliche,
but I need you to take me to your leader."

⁂

"That is most unusual," Ship Second Tlkitz mused, running through
another scan. "The two teams I sent down to storage room thirty--seven
are leaving as a group, but the thirteen who were in that room are still
there."

"Maybe there *is* something going on down at the storage room?" Ship
Master Crfti suggested. "Get in contact with them, see what they have to
say for themselves."

"As you say, Ship Master," Tlkitz said obediently, and turned to the
communication console to his right. "Investigative teams, report."

There was a delay. Longer than he would have expected. He activated the
communicator again. "Investigative teams--"

"We\'re fine," came the response at last. "Everything\'s fine here.
We\'re all just coming up to the command deck."

"To the command deck?" Tlkitz queried. "If all is well, return to your
stations."

"Negative, Ship Second," the investigative team responded again, almost
plaintively. "We will be coming to the command deck. We have something
to deliver."

Tlkitz hesitated. That was puzzling, there was nothing he was aware of
on the ship that would ever need to be delivered to the command deck,
save for the occasional protein tablet for the hard working Ship Master
and his trusted Second.

"Ship Master," he said uncertainly, "the investigative teams are on
their way here. They have something to deliver."

"What have they got?" Ship Master Crfti asked. "I\'m not hungry enough
for a protein tablet."

"I\'ll check," Tlkitz replied, and turned back to the communicator
console. "Investigative team, what are you delivering?"

At that moment the door to the command deck literally burst apart to
reveal a human with a fusion sword.

The human bared its teeth at them. "A surprise, motherfucker!"

⁂

Adrian had done his best James Doakes impression and there had been
nobody else around to appreciate it. That had been disappointing, but he
was getting used to nobody knowing what the hell he was talking about
and he didn\'t let it slow him down.

He pointed the fusion sword at the Corti sitting in the most commanding
chair.

"You\'re the dickhead in charge here?" he demanded.

The Corti leader shrank back in plain horror at the current situation.
"All hands, defend me!" he cried out desperately. "Fire on the human!"

There was hesitation from all corners, all members of the command deck
crew glanced at their kinetic sidearms with the kind of forlorn looks
that told him they knew exactly how useless they\'d be.

"Respectfully, Ship Master," said one of the Command crew, "but with
what?"

"Look, mate," Adrian said, addressing the Ship Master, "I\'m about to
offer you a way to stay alive, but if you don\'t want it then someone
else can always get promoted."

He let the words sink in, and the Corti leader regained his composure.
"The Directorate will not allow this to pass lightly," he warned Adrian,
"but I will listen to your demands."

⁂

The situation aboard the Zhadersil had been tense. Plan A had not worked
-- in fact it had failed spectacularly when they had discovered that the
Corti ship had been a heavy scout with a Sealed FTL drive -- and now
they were waiting to see if Adrian would manage to return.

"This is not an ideal situation," Treoffa had said, "but we have little
choice to hope everything goes as--"

"It\'s here!" Trycrur excitedly interrupted. "The Corti ship just
appeared in a lower orbit!"

"We\'ll have to go out and board it," Chir said. "Treoffa still needs to
disable the beacon, and we need to guide it onto the flight deck."

"Adrian only managed fifty--six percent of his simulated landings with
any success," Trycrur reminded them. "We don\'t want him ramming a heavy
scout through the Zhadersil by accident."

"We need to make sure it\'s actually him, first," Treoffa told them.
"I\'ll contact the ship, just in case the plan has failed
spectacularly."

⁂

Two hours later, Adrian was back on the flight deck of the Zhadersil,
its massive space now substantially filled by ten Hunter ships, the
Corti Salvage runner, and most substantially by the Heavy Scout, the
Endless Sequence.

"You know, Chir," he said to the Gaoian as they strode across the deck,
"I know the power is back on, and all this new air is sealed in, but I
don\'t think I\'ll ever be comfortable walking around here again."

"I know what you mean," Chir replied, glancing nervously at the end of
the flight deck where metal turned into the black void of space. "But
you know, I find it a little hard to believe you didn\'t end up killing
*all* of the Corti on the scoutship."

"I\'m a soldier, mate," Adrian replied, "not a murderer. They didn\'t
put up any resistance, and they were all too happy to get into their
escape pods when told to."

"You don\'t think that was a mistake?" Chir asked. "What if they tell
the Directorate?"

"They *will* tell the Directorate," Adrian said. "They\'ll tell them
what I said I was going to do."

Chir responded with his approximation of a confused frown. "Which was?"

"I had them enter the coordinates for the Hunter homeworld," Adrian told
him. "I told them I was going to war."

"And they believed you?!" Chir asked, clearly aghast at the idea of
anyone going to the Hunter homeworld.

"Mate," said Adrian with a broad smile, "I can be very persuasive when I
need to be."

⁂

"We\'re amassing quite the fleet," Zripob observed as Adrian and Chir
reached the airlock. "Pity we don\'t have enough people to fly all of
these."

"I thought you wanted to go home," Adrian asked. "Or at least get back
into that war you were fighting in."

"The Dominion--Celzi war," Zripob replied. "Yes, I was just considering
that a mercenary company with a fleet of this size would be quite the
substantial force. The Dominion, or alternatively the Celzi, would shit
their collective pants if they came against *this* kind of force."

Zripob gave an undulating croak of laughter. Stealing a ship from the
Corti Directorate had brightened his day, and the more vessels he saw
housed in the enormous flight deck the more he found himself wondering
what the future could hold if he managed to take control of such an
assembly of vessels.

Could it be possible for him, a low born pond--raker, to ascend to the
lofty heights of Fleetlord? It didn\'t seem so far--fetched right now.

"What\'s that war even about?" Adrian asked. "From what I\'ve heard it
has been quite drawn out. Who are the good guys?"

"It\'s a political thing," Chir inserted, "there *are* no good guys.
That war is a significant reason for my people being reluctant to join
the Dominion at this time, in spite of other benefits. It has proven
itself to be a meat--grinder."

"I don\'t really pay attention to such things myself," Zripob admitted.
"As long as there\'s someone willing to pay for mercenary work I\'m
happy."

"And when the war inevitably ends?" Chir asked. "What will you do then?"

Zripob croaked his laugh again. "Then there\'s easy guard duty for
freighters or work as bodyguards. Just because there\'s peace doesn\'t
mean there\'s no danger."

"Especially not with that message the Hunters put out, I imagine,"
Adrian mused.

The laughter died in Zripob\'s throat, the amusement left his eyes.
"That is true," he said. "So maybe I\'ll have to find work far away from
any humans. No offence intended."

"My main worry," Adrian said, "is that there are more humans out there,
and that maybe they\'re not capable of fucking up a small army."

"More to the point," Chir said, "how will those around them react to the
news? *We* know *you\'ve* outclassed a thousand Hunters -- taken ten of
their ships in the process -- but that\'s not common knowledge."

Zripob gestured his agreement with a bobbing motion. "Their friends will
become their enemies," he said. "It will come down to a matter of pure
survival."

"It\'s a matter of survival for us as well," Chir reminded him. "Except
the Hunters will come for us either way, so we actually *want* our human
here."

"I think that maybe," Adrian said, rubbing his chin, "I really will need
to declare war on them."

They stared at him in combined horror. Zripob had never heard of anyone
who was willing to throw their military at the Hunter brood -- he\'d
have called anyone who suggested such a plan insane -- but this man had
already given the Hunters a bloody nose without much preparation and had
even walked through a dissipating trace atmosphere and survived.

"I won\'t say they don\'t have it coming," Zripob said, "but how do you
expect to win such a war?"

"I don\'t know if I can," Adrian admitted with a frown, "but it seems to
me that we\'ve got a few aces up our sleeve. First thing\'s first,
though: we\'re going to need some much better weapons."

⁂

With all that had been going on, it had taken Treoffa days to trawl
through the enormous number of logs, reports, and manifests in the
Zhadersil\'s memory banks. She was not accessing it through the ship\'s
own operating system, and as a result the file tables were not being
read. Each file she had opened had been a complete mystery until she had
started reading.

But she was finally done, or at least she was done reading everything
that seemed important. The complete picture was much as Bekmer had
posited, and matched what she had come to suspect herself.

Earth had produced a sentient race once before, and they had built the
Zhadersil. From the records of those final days, almost all V\'Straki
had been exterminated by a final genocidal campaign by their enemies,
and had been destroyed with such completeness that it was little wonder
that almost nothing remained.

And now the final record; the last words of Shiplord Xagh. Any creature
of their homeworld may be recognised by the ship as a commander.

The human could command the ship.

Treoffa leaned forward with both hands on her desk, her breathing and
movement both under her strictest control, her body and temper both
feeling taut enough to snap. She knew that it must be possible --somehow
-- to use this to take control of the ship for herself, but she
couldn\'t see how.

For the life of her, she simply couldn\'t see how.


