---
title: New Starts
---

# New Starts

\

\

::: chapter
**Date Point: 3Y 8M 1W 5D AV**

**Cimbrean, the Far Reaches**

Adrian had spent a full three hours in rapid--fire conversation with the
bat--girl he\'d thought was dead, who technically still was dead, but
today\'s interaction had made that particular argument a shitload less
compelling. The conversation had consisted mainly of joy that they were
both alive -- for want of a better word -- followed by each of them
filling in the other about what they\'d been doing since they last left
off.

Once he was satisfied that he knew everything he needed to know, Adrian
had returned to the colony as fast as the atmosphere would allow him,
and had immediately sought out Captain Powell as soon as he had landed.

"Hurry the fuck up!" he demanded of Cliff and Gorge as he ran, once
again finding his expansive lungs were the most useful of his
adaptations. As with all regular people -- Jen included -- they started
off strong but soon found the exertions demanded more oxygen than
Cimbrean\'s atmosphere could provide.

He burst into the area that Powell made his regular stomping grounds,
the area between his office, the mess hall, and the encampment,
searching for the man with wild eyes as the two escorts rejoined him in
a temper.

"Told you not to go running off again," Gorge growled, heaving a punch
at Adrian, barely missing as his target leant to the side and out of the
path of his fist, grabbing hold of the offending arm and stepping in.

Gorge immediately shifted into a defensive stance for the return strike
that Adrian did not supply.

"Listen to me you dense fuck," Adrian hissed. "You\'ve just been
*witness* to one of my friends with her brain locked inside a fucking
computer. You don\'t think your Captain might like to know about
something like that as soon as fucking possible?"

Powell\'s ears must have been burning, because he was striding over to
the situation with a fierce look of anger etched onto his face. "What
the *fook* d\'you think your doing?"

Adrian suffered no illusions that the entirety of Powell\'s ill temper
was being directed at him; he was, after all, the crazy one and these
men were his supposed guards, so it only made sense for him to be the
one causing problems. He released his grip on Gorge\'s arm, turning to
face Powell, and was amused to see the guard rub the place that had been
gripped with a wince of pain.

"Looking for you, Powell," Adrian replied. "Got a spare minute to deal
with another lifetime of bullshit?"

"More bad *fookin\'* news," Powell breathed. "Fookin\' wonderful. Yeah,
I\'ve got a spare minute."

They stepped into the privacy of his office under the watchful eyes of
absolutely everyone in the area, yet another thing that Powell didn\'t
seem very happy about.

"Start talkin\', Saunders," Powell ordered as he took the seat behind
his desk, apparently sensing that he would prefer to be sitting down for
what was to come.

"You\'ll recall my story about the bat--girl, Trix?" Adrian asked,
waiting for Powell\'s curt nod of confirmation before continuing. "Turns
out she\'s not dead. Not *exactly*."

"Stop beating around the fookin\' bush!" snapped Powell. "I haven\'t the
patience for it."

Adrian nodded, annoyed but accepting. "They brutally fucking murdered
her alright, but they brainsucked her into a little computer core the
size of a ping--pong ball. She remains conscious. You wanted proof? This
is it. Intelligence and technology? It\'s fucking well that, too."

Powell did seem disturbed by this, although whether it was simply the
idea of having his mind ripped out and put into a computer, or if he was
already coming to the same unhappy conclusions that Adrian had arrived
at he couldn\'t be sure.

"This real, Saunders?" Powell asked him. "Not some crazy fookin\'
bullshit from your fever dreams?"

Jerking a thumb towards Cliff and Gorge, Adrian answered. "Ask these
motherfuckers. They were there, they heard it all."

The two guards glared at Adrian\'s abuse, but confirmed the story with a
nod when Powell raised a questioning eyebrow towards them.

"Well," Powell said, "I suppose I shouldn\'t be too fookin\' pissed off
with you since you\'ve delivered your promised \'lifetime of bullshit\'.
This bat--girl is in some fooked up alien Matrix?"

"I don\'t think it has the same amount of window dressing, but yeah,"
Adrian replied. Trix had described it as an empty room containing only
herself until Adrian had connected her to the console, and then it had
become something completely different.

"If this is as you say," Powell pondered, the furrow of his brow
deepening as his frown darkened, "then these Hierarchy types are about
ten times more fookin\' dangerous than I\'d previously imagined. Steal a
man\'s mind and you \'ave all his secrets."

"I\'m leaving as soon as possible," Adrian advised him, already itching
to get back to his friends and protect them from this dreadful menace.
"Spot can fly, even if she\'s not pretty, and I\'ve got things I need to
protect."

Powell\'s attention snapped back to him. "Don\'t forget our deal," he
reminded him. "Good faith."

Adrian didn\'t need the reminder, although he didn\'t plan on coming
back to Cimbrean without a really good fucking reason. Affrag could give
him all the food and supplies he needed, and maybe a
home--away--from--home besides. He briefly considered the idea of
starting his own colony there, blackjack and hookers always welcome.

"I\'m going to need guns," he said flatly. "Guns and ammunition."

Powell stared at him. "I\'m not handing over weapons to a crazy man
without a good fookin\' reason. Quid pro quo, remember?"

"Then I might have something you find useful," Adrian said with a smile.
"I can build you a scanner that will let you know if Hunters are in the
system, cloaked or not. Then you won\'t be caught with your fucking
pants down."

‚ÅÇ

**Date Point: 3Y 8M 1W 6D AV**

**Irbzrk Orbital Factory, Main Station**

Jennifer Delaney. Mid--twenties, space--babe adventurer and
beginner--mode survivalist, most recently employed as a professional
explorer and skinhead. The fact that she was now to be *paid* to stumble
around space was a welcome new spin on an old game, and it was her hope
that the constant influx of new discoveries and adventure would keep her
from going mad.

This was her life now, and that was okay. She could miss Earth, her
family and the comforts of Belfast life, all while knowing it wasn\'t
her home anymore. That place belonged to Old Jen, but even she was too
changed by her time out in space to ever fit in back home; she\'d be
forever known as \'that girl\' and treated like some kind of celebrity
victim.

"I don\'t want that," said Old Jen, even if she did miss it all so
terribly.

New Jen agreed. She wasn\'t going to be treated like that after all
she\'d seen and done. She wasn\'t a victim now, she had survived and
grown beyond the cowardly I.T. girl who just went with the flow and was
crap with men and basically every other sort of relationship; six months
of survival and her own company had hardened her into a self--reliant,
self--confident and completely wilful new woman. She hadn\'t taken any
lovers yet -- the idea of being with another soldier after... well, it
made her uneasy -- but if she found a good bloke there wouldn\'t be any
mucking around. Julian, Kirk\'s companion, had seemed nice, and he\'d
already seen her in the buff, but Jen had to get her shit together
before she could get around to anything like a sex life.

As for Earth, there was no fucking chance she was going back while Old
Jen still had any kind of grip on her. There was too much of a chance
that, while everyone expected her to be that Belfast girl they all knew,
she\'d find herself being forced back into the same hopeless life she\'d
determined to leave behind.

Everybody had been surprised when she had decided to turn down the role
of Colonial Governor, although Powell had certainly seemed to approve of
her doing what she wanted rather than what everyone thought she should
do, and her replacement, the quintessentially British Jeremy Sand, had
done similarly, although he may have been a touch biased.

The job would have been prestigious, lucrative and challenging, and it
would have been entirely wrong for her. At the end of the day her
singular real act as Governor had been to name the colony -- Folctha,
the Celtic word for \'bath\', her own little joke -- and that had only
been done as she handed over to her replacement. It had ultimately been
a desk job and she was no longer felt she was the sort of person who
could stay still for any length of time.

It had been hard enough doing so for the last few months, even though
once she\'d reached the ruins of the palace there was nowhere further
for her to go. The soldiers had been helpful enough, providing her with
more civilization than she\'d had in the months prior, and they\'d even
brought chocolate as a little taste of home. That had been delicious,
but it had also been a dangerous path to tread, because the last thing
that New Jen wanted was to fall back into her old mindset.

She\'d only watched the video from her parents after she\'d made her
decision to leave, and had put it off until the last moment so that she
wouldn\'t be swept up in a sudden change of heart and go with the wrong
choice instead. The arrival of a Celzi Alliance cruiser had even been
perfectly timed to provide a distraction from her nostalgia and an
excuse to avoid any lengthy goodbyes.

If that wasn\'t a good sign she didn\'t know what was.

She had been saved by from the terrible fate of a lifetime of paperwork
by Kirk, the white giraffe--like alien who\'d wisely decided that siding
with humanity instead of against them would have an ultimately better
result on both a personal and political level. He had been hesitant
about delivering her to Irbzrk, knowing she was a familiar face around
there and fearing some might realise something on Cimbrean still
remained, but Jen had been resolute. As far as she could figure, anybody
with the knowledge of Cimbrean would also know it destroyed in its
entirety, and she knew the right people to bribe or fast--talk into
getting the construction of her own ship pushed to the top of the list.

Kirk had helped her out with *that* part of things, furnishing her with
a generous supply of Dominion Construction Credits. That had allowed her
to design, with some assistance, a small, fast craft fit for a handful
of crew; she had no expectation of taking on a partner any time soon,
but it was important to plan for the future -- even New Jen didn\'t want
to be alone forever.

That ship, \'The Governess\' was registered to her under the pseudonym
of JD, simple initials but different enough that no alien would realise
the true identity of its owner--pilot.

Irbzrk was also the opportunity to put a lot of rumours to rest, and to
start some new ones. Counting on the aliens still having a hard time
recognising humans, she had shaved off all her beautiful red hair -- it
was a liability right now -- and had switch to a deeper, huskier voice
when she needed to speak. Her story was that Jennifer Delaney had
suggested she come here to get a ship built, and that the funds had been
supplied as a sort of inheritance. Jennifer Delaney, feared pirate
queen, had died to a Hunter attack -- something entirely unverifiable --
and her pirates had been scattered.

With her work with the shipyard masters complete, Jen had several hours
to kill before the ship was in a habitable state. That gave her enough
time to do some shopping and, more importantly, to gather information.

She had already started making inquiries into the fate of her pirate
companions after they had fled Cimbrean. By Hrbrd\'s own account they
had kept the Hodgepodge and several functional vessels, getting them all
clear before turning the orbital systems against the rest. Jen couldn\'t
imagine that they\'d all simply returned home to the Dominion -- she
would have thought that at the very least Chir would still have wanted
to fight on -- so they must have moved on to find a new base of
operations. Word on the station was that there had been a brief
interruption in piracy in Celzi space before it had once again resumed
in full and with even more expansive theft of starship components.
Rumours abounded of Chir and Zripob and their dastardly band of
cut--throats plying Celzi trade routes as hard as they ever had.

But there had been one change: nobody had been selling whole ships to
the Dominion in any quantity that would match the level of piracy. To
Jen it sounded as though the pirates were seizing control of everything
they could get their hands on, and if history repeated itself they would
be busy stripping them down and turning them into something else.

Whatever the case, there was one way to tell for certain, one way to
know that it really was Chir and Zripob and crew still out there, all
while collecting some pocket change in the process; she simply needed to
follow the money, and that meant a visit to the local branch of the
Blzhti Galactic Bank.

The Blzhti Galactic Bank was by far the most powerful financial
institution in the galaxy, an institution backed by the Dominion itself
that administrated over fifty--five percent of the Dominion economy,
with the remainder dealt with by a large number of smaller enterprises
backed by individual governments and some corporations.

When they had initially commenced work as privateers, Hrbrd had set up a
secure anonymous account that required numerical keys to access. These
keys were little more than algorithms based on the date, and having
memorised the one she could discover the other, so once her new vessel
was well and truly under construction she had quickly calculated the
daily key and had made her way to the mercantile centre of the main
station.

That had required walking down the central promenade, a huge corridor
once filled with merchants offering their various wares. Stalls were
made available to anyone wishing to use them, but with the war still in
full swing most of them remained bare. The halfway point along the
central corridor was where the banking house had constructed its base
facility, but before she could reach that she had to go past the
statues.

Maybe that hadn\'t been such a good idea.

She\'d forgotten about the statues that represented Adrian Saunders in
both his forms, one the ultra--realistic muscle--man she\'d nearly had a
relationship with, the other a blue--furred yeti with creative license
taken. Jen had stopped and stared at both of them, silent tears
streaming down her face as the old conflict reignited within.

"We need to move along," New Jen urged, her voice trembling as she
resisted breaking into sobs. "We didn\'t love him. We didn\'t even
*know* him... he *had* a family."

The revelations regarding Adrian\'s family had been quite the surprise,
those of the serious criminal charges much less so. While Powell had
been light on the details, Jen very much doubted that Adrian had it in
him to be violent towards those he loved. She did not, however,
appreciate almost being the other woman.

And yet in the end it had been she who\'d killed him, not in anger or on
self--defence, not even with intent, but it still weighed upon her. The
man who would have struggled every second to keep her safe, regardless
of how misguided some of his attempts may have been, had died through
her action and lack thereof.

"We *killed* him," Old Jen condemned. "He died because of *us*!"

New Jen would not be drawn into *this* discussion again. "It happened,"
she said, "get past it. We were poisoned by that awful foam."

Those were the familiar excuses she told herself when she started to
think about all of that; it would simply have been nice if she had
thought of them as *reasons*.

Putting the statues at her back was hard and yet necessary, and she
would make sure to take the long way back if it avoided them. She just
needed to stop herself from thinking about it until she didn\'t anymore.
Easy.

There was only a few minutes between the statues and the Irbzrkian
branch of the Blzhti Galactic Bank, but it was enough time for Jen to
refocus and prepare. The banking house was, in the manner of Earth,
built to intimidate with its size and impress with its grandeur. Every
surface was adorned with etching or ornamentation, and in many cases
etched ornamentations, with the overall goal of making their clients
feel as unimportant as possible.

Jen just thought they must be compensating for something. She walked in
and without waiting to be called proceeded to the nearest clerk, a
small--by--comparison female Vzk\'tk, although for the first time she
did notice the fact that *all* of the clerks were Vzk\'tk. They greeted
each other quickly before getting down to business.

"Secure anonymous account
One--Four--Zero--Square--Black--Nine--Red--Triangle," she recited,
hoping her memory hadn\'t slipped over the past several months.
"Keystring Green--Five--Circle--Eight--Dodecagon."

When she\'d left there\'d been almost a million credits in the account,
but she expected that figure would have dropped considerably with the
costs of rebuilding; the account histories would at least tell her about
the most recent transactions and give her an idea of--

She was not expecting the account to have been emptied, with an endless
stream of micro transactions made to various other institutions. The
money was gone, clearly stolen, and with it her hopes to procure a
little to make her ship a home.

"It looks like your account is empty," the clerk observed. "Sorry, but
you would need a line of credit to make a withdrawal."

"What the *fuck* do you mean \'empty\'?" Jen demanded. "There were
thousands of transactions listed there..."

"Four million withdrawals," the Clerk advised, somehow managing to be
more unhelpful than if had she remained silent.

"Four million tiny transactions," Jen considered. "Each below a single
credit. Let me guess, no fraud checking for tiny transactions?"

The clerk bobbed her head in confirmation. "Fraud checking begins for
transactions of ten credits and higher. Can I offer you an upgrade to
your account for full checking?"

Jen exploded, hitting the counter with enough force to bend it and scare
the shit out of the clerk. "I don\'t want your fucking *upgrades*!" she
raged, beginning to attract nervous attention. "I want my fucking money
back!"

Apparently New Jen had little tolerance for people trying to up--sell
her a premium package after having everything stolen.

The clerk hesitated before shaking her head. "It\'s an Anonymous
account. I\'m sorry, but those have no liability."

"No liability..." Jen repeated in a growl, her anger rising even
further. "I\'ve had almost a million credits stolen from this account,
and you have *no liability*!?"

The Vzk\'tk recoiled at Jen\'s bared teeth, sputtering nonsense
apologies and excuses before finally settling on one in particular.
"It\'s bank policy!"

Bureaucracy. Even Old Jen had loathed it, but her response to having to
deal with all those rules and regulations was to simply do as everyone
said before reaching the end of the process, bedraggled and dispirited,
and never raising a fuss. Old Jen was angry at the loss of so much
money, but she wasn\'t inclined to do anything about it.

That was an important way in which New Jen differed; she fixed a hard
stare on the frightened clerk and made her demand. "Give. Me. Back. My.
Money."

As requests went, New Jen thought it was reasonable, and as far as
manners went New Jen thought she had been very restrained. If it were
someone like Adrian in the situation, it would already have devolved
into robbing the place.

The clerks did not agree, and one of them pressed the panic button.

That was when the whole room changed: the exits sealed, the ceiling shot
down several transport beams, and robo--security was deployed into room,
eight bots armed with standard kinetics and decidedly non--standard
shock guns.

"Stand down or be subdued!" the lead robot commanded in an entirely
stereotypical robot voice, both guns levelled directly at Jen.

Jen held her breath, standing entirely still to avoid giving them a
reason to start using any of those. She\'d been stunned once before, by
Cameron White, and she had no desire to repeat that experience. "Let\'s
not do anything we\'ll regret, Robocop," she said softly, her eyes
flicking between robots. "I stand down..."

"She\'s a human!" cried out the clerk she\'d inadvertently terrified.
"She was trying to rob the bank!"

Jen had vaulted the counter on instinct as soon as the word \'Human\'
was uttered, flipping over in a display of adrenaline--fuelled agility
and landing into safety where she could listen to the rain of kinetics
hitting the other side.

*That\'s the sound of me losing control of my life*, she thought,
remembering how problems had always kept Adrian on the back--foot; this
must be what all those times had felt like for him. She didn\'t like it
very much.

"I just wanted a pillow," she grumbled, looking for a weapon. "Some
curtains, maybe a table cloth... just linens in general. Maybe some real
goddamned food..."

She tore a decorative railing off the clerk\'s side of the counter, felt
the balance and sprang from cover. The length of metal was through the
sensors on a robot a moment later, and she was back behind a counter
before they could turn to react.

The broken robot hissed and fizzled and made mechanical complaint, but
it would no longer be trying to shoot her. Robotic security would not
use firearms if they could not detect where the actual target was, a
very wise safety protocol that was currently very easy to exploit; they
didn\'t even have safety glass to protect the vital components.

There was another segment of the railing on the new counter, and she
took that as she had the other. "I can\'t believe I\'m accidentally
robbing a bank," she muttered now resigned to the action through no
fault of her own.

She weighed the balance of the new rail, gripped it tight, and readied
to strike again. "One Robocop down... seven to go."

‚ÅÇ

**Cimbrean, the Far Reaches**

The Welshman known as \'Legsy\', the big man who\'d stuck his big gun
into Adrian\'s lower back when he\'d first come ashore, had been allowed
to furnish Adrian with a twelve--gauge combat shotgun, a magazine--fed
SPAS--15, which seemed to him to be just about the most beautiful thing
in the whole fucking world. Frankly speaking, just holding it made him a
little hard.

It hadn\'t been free, of course, but it had been goddamned close; with
all of the half--broken shit laying around it had been a walk in the
park to assemble something that not only worked, but actually worked
somewhat better than standard alien equipment. The parts of three Hunter
vessels had been combined to create a multi--band sensor suite with
Hunter comms detection, just about the most comprehensive thing it was
possible to get without knocking over a Corti heavy exploration vessel.

The fact that it had worked correctly on first power--up was a small
miracle, and had impressed the more technical soldiers almost as much as
the output itself. *That* had made them light up with the kind of joy
that Christmas brings small boys who\'d just gotten everything they\'d
asked for and then some.

But it was nothing in comparison with the beautiful weapon now resting
in Adrian\'s hands, a length of death--spitting metal weighing in just
shy of four kilograms and he hadn\'t needed to steal it, or borrow it,
or simply discover it.

" Watcha think, boy, reckon that'll do?" Legsy asked as he handed the
gun over.

Adrian had spent a moment looking at it in wonder, but had subtly
cleared his throat and sobered his expression as Powell entered the
room. "I... uh... yeah. Yeah, that\'ll do." he said, not wanting to seem
*too* excited.

The big Welshman grinned, handing over the ammunition in a big bag
before turning to clean his own weapon of choice. Clearly he sensed that
Powell wanted to do some talking.

"The new sensors are up." Powell said, which meant that technical group
had managed to get it shifted over to where they usually did their thing
and hadn\'t broken it in the process. "And a fook of a lot better than
the old ones. I might just have been wrong about you being a waste of
good calories."

"Jen could have told you that." Adrian replied, still annoyed that she
hadn\'t given these guys jack shit in either intel or technology.

Powell winced in irritation, a sure sign that he still didn\'t enjoy
Adrian\'s company, but since the feeling was mutual it was hard to give
a shit. "Jen thinks you\'re dead," Powell reminded him. "Not a lot of
point going into the skills and talents of a fookin' dead man, is
there?"

"Might have been worth knowing you on top of a fuckload of salvageable
alien tech though, wouldn't it?" Adrian added bitterly; that omission of
hers was really going to take a while for him to get over.

Disapproval shot across Powell\'s face, but he didn\'t act on it,
suggesting that maybe he wasn\'t such an ass after all. "Your ship
ready? Your two weeks are up tomorrow."

" Yep," Adrian replied, "*Spot*'s all ready to go, provisions are all
loaded... just need to hump the artillery here and I'm done mate."

"Right. I hate to break my end of the deal, but right now according to
those fancy sensors you set up, you've got a clear sky, no warp
signatures within a parsec or so," Powell advised, although Adrian had
already taken the liberty of scanning all of that during the initial
power--up. "No guarantees that's going to be true tomorrow. So, would
you mind awfully--"

"--fucking off?" Adrian asked, guessing how the request was going to
end. He grinned in amusement at the similarity of thought. "Too bad,
I'll miss the food here mate."

Unexpectedly, Powell put out a hand, and after only a brief moment of
surprise Adrian shook it.

"Just try not to get killed you crazy fookin' prick," Powell warned,
which was about as close as the man was going to get to wishing Adrian
good luck.

Adrian grinned as though he had anyway. "So far so good."

‚ÅÇ

**Record 573--Black--03** *+Recovered from C11--Orange--712--Yellow--6+*

It wasn\'t much of a grave, just a stack of stones in a world of rubble,
covering the worldly remains of an eleven year old boy. Cavven\'s voice
was unsteady as he spoke. "I... suppose it\'s time to say goodbye, son."

Maikie\'s wailing sobs were easily audible off--camera, the name of
\'Ahred\' mingling with the sounds of grief. "Why!? she demanded, again
and again.

Cavven finally answered. "Because we were led by fools."

This didn\'t appear to satisfy in any meaningful way, because Maikie
continued her unsettling grief chant.

The camera approached the stones, carried by the dead boy\'s father and
sat atop the stones. "Here son," Cavven said, his voice choking off.
"Happy birthday."

**End Recording**

‚ÅÇ

**Date Point: 3Y 8M 1W 5D AV**

**Irbzrk Orbital Factory, Main Station**

It had been remarkably easy to destroy the security robots, so much so
that it had actually been sort of embarrassing to stand around
afterwards with hardly a sweat having been broken. Standing victorious
atop the counter, staring down at the malfunctioning robots, Jen cut a
fine figure, and one imposing enough to ensure the clerks fell over
themselves to follow her orders.

Jennifer Delaney. Mid--twenties, space--babe adventurer, beginner--mode
survivalist, professional explorer, and accidental bank robber.

"This is your fault!" she explained to the terrified clerks. "I just
wanted to buy some fucking home wares! I want an unmarked credit chit
with the exact amount in my account before it was stolen, no more and no
less! If you use a *marked* chit I will *know*, and you will not enjoy
the results! Savvy?"

In truth she wouldn\'t have any idea how to tell them apart; the two
varieties of credit chit looked completely identical, but as a rule
Vzk\'tk weren\'t all that bright and it was better to put the thought
out of their heads before it became a real problem.

"So now we\'re robbing a bank?" Old Jen asked in disapproval. "What
would mum and da\' think of this?"

New Jen ignored the question, although it still chafed at her. She
hadn\'t started the day wanting to go and rob a bank; she hadn\'t even
entered the bank intending to rob it, but here she was, surrounded by
broken security robots, and waiting for the clerks to upload the full
amount of credits onto the chit. As far as Jen could tell, the
\'credit\' was a barely functional form of crypto--currency, so bloated
with whatever programming went into them that there was actually a
waiting time for them to be copied onto an independent device. They
were, however, completely untraceable as far as anybody could tell, so
at least once she was done robbing banks she\'d be able to spend the
proceeds.

"How are we going to get out of this?" Old Jen demanded, and New Jen
knew it was a good question. There would probably be station police
involved, and then there\'d be the security footage...

She *knew* that shaving her head had been the right thing to do, but it
was better to be safe than sorry.

"Where\'s the security footage?" she asked, turning towards the clerks.
"Where does the camera feed go to?"

They just looked confused. "What cameras?"

Jen sighed in relief; she\'d almost forgotten that she was in space,
where nobody had heard of the surveillance state. "Never mind. Get that
done."

Outside the sealed front door she could already hear station security
forces arriving. They\'d taken their time, but perhaps they\'d been
waiting for an all clear after the robot attack failed. She should have
thought about getting the clerks to do that, but in all fairness she\'d
never done anything like this before.

At last they presented her with the chit, even as the front door came
under sudden assault by the security forces. They\'d brought a plasma
cutter, and the waves of heat pulsed out from it as it did its work. "Is
there a back door?" she asked, figuring it didn\'t hurt to ask.

"The only way out is through the front door," a more senior, male
Vzk\'tk replied. "You\'ll never escape!"

Jen disagreed, although it was definitely going to take a lot of
creativity in a very short amount of time. Ideally it would also give
her free run of the space station, and everybody would forget that she
was here.

New Jen smiled a predator\'s smile, and the Vzk\'tk flinched. It was
time to involve them all. "Okay, everybody," she said cheerfully. "Grab
a chit and fill it up!"

"You said you were only taking what was stolen from you!" the Vzk\'tk
senior accused. "This is--"

"This is for you," Jen finished for him. "You\'re going to be my
accomplices."

"But... but the bank..." the Vzk\'tk senior stammered in horror. "Our
families..."

New Jen\'s eyes narrowed; that was definitely new and very unpleasant
information. It wasn\'t unreasonable to think that an economic
powerhouse like Blzhti Galactic Bank might use the occasional bit of
muscle, but turning their weapons against the families of employees...
well, that was crossing some kind of line. The bank had a long reach and
incredible power throughout the Dominion, and they weren\'t the kind of
people worth making enemies of.

It might be too late for her to reverse course, but she wouldn\'t put
that on these poor dopes, and even without incriminating them they could
still be useful.

"Oh, you don\'t want to be named as accomplices?" she asked, smiling
broadly with parted lips. They all flinched as she looked at them,
instinct kicking in, but they all shook their heads emphatically; it
seemed that they did not.

*Think fast... no way out... no way out... just the front door*. That
could be problematic, if she was identified, and had she still been
sporting her flaming red hair it certain she would have been. Well, if
the only way out was through the front door, then there was only one
thing to do...

"Then let me congratulate you on your loyalty," she said, shifting her
tone to one of approval. This had the result of immediately confusing
the poor blue giraffes, and hopefully the line of bullshit she was about
to deliver would let her walk out of here in one piece.

"L--loyalty?" one of the clerks asked.

"Yes," Jen continued, shooting a glance over to the ever--weakening
front door; she didn\'t have long. "I\'m from head office, and we\'ve
been doing a top secret test of each branch for security and policy
issues. I\'m sorry to say that all your jobs must now go under review."

They responded with murmurings indicating a mix of alarm and concern,
but mostly still just a lack of understanding as to what was going on.
The blue giraffes were usually nice, but sometimes you really had to
spell it out for them.

She held up the credit chit. "Giving the criminal what they want? You
should know better than that! You\'re lucky you didn\'t agree to the
second part of the demands or these fine police would have to arrest you
all."

Enlightenment dawned on the poor, dumb bastards just as the
aforementioned police broke down the door and surged in.

It was important to get the first word in before the waters got too
muddy, so Jen took up position in front of the Vzk\'tk and assumed her
most managerial posture. "Officers," she called brightly, "how nice of
you to join our little training exercise. I wasn\'t sure your department
would involve itself in a simple *training exercise*."

"Training exercise?" one asked, pulling up sharply. "We received a
security alert..."

Jen assumed an expression of having encountered an unpleasant surprise.
"Are you suggesting that nobody informed you that this wasn\'t a real
robbery?"

"No..." the policemen replied uncertainly, sharing awkward glances with
each other. "Nothing like that..."

Jen frowned. "Then it seems as though somebody *else* will have their
job under review. Rest assured that I will be sending over all the
details as soon as possible, but for now I would appreciate your unit\'s
assistance in shutting down all these defective security bots."

"So let me get this straight," the senior of the Vzk\'tk piped up.
"You\'re from head office and were just testing us? You should hand that
chit back!"

Whirling on him, Jen darkened her frown with anger. "Why would I give
you the evidence of your own incompetence, *clerk*?"

The clerk recoiled. "I.. I --"

"I will be presenting this to my superior... you may have heard of..
uh... Master... Skeletor? Because soon he will certainly know about
*you*!"

"Master Skeletor?" the Vzk\'tk repeated, having taken note of the
ominous inflection Jen had added.

"Yes," Jen replied, keeping her inner mirth buried under a troubled
fa√ßade. "He will have quite the bone to pick with you."

The clerk seemed resolute. "I will contact Master Skeletor and
explain--"

"Why you let someone steal a million credits?" Jen finished. "Yes, I
sure that bothering him with your indiscretions will put you in his good
books. You will wait until *he* contacts *you*, understood?"

The clerk nodded miserably, close to tears in his own way.

She had them now, hook, line and sinker.

"I expect you to fill the officers here in on the details while I go
about my other duties," she ordered. "Give them *every* assistance you
can."

She turned to the equally confused police and smiled, making certain to
keep her lips closed. "And please pass my apologies on to your superiors
over our oversight. We will be providing a generous recompense to all
officers for the trouble caused. It would only be right, yes."

At that their attention sharpened. "Yes... of course... only right."

Jen nodded gracefully and walked confidently from the building, through
and away from the rather disorganised police siege. She was the very
picture of the powerful modern woman right up until she was out of
sight, and then she broke into run and legged it all the way back to the
her ship.

There would probably be somewhere else that sold food and linens, and a
million credits could go a long way.

At the door to her ship she turned to look at Irbzrk for what she hoped
would be the last time, surveying the place that had given her so much
grief. "Time for something new."

‚ÅÇ

**Spot, the Outer Cluster**

"We\'re coming up on the coordinates you specified," Trycrur reported,
her voice coming from every speaker on Spot\'s command deck. Not long
after discovering that her ping--pong ball was compatible with the main
core, Adrian had made the switch. The result was that Trycrur now had
full control of Spot and served in every way like an A.I. She still
wanted her real body back -- or a decent facsimile thereof -- but for
the moment she preferred being a ship to being a ping--pong ball and
understood that as the only way she was going to realise her dream of
being alive again was to force the Hierarchy to make it happen, she may
as well help Adrian with absolutely everything she could.

The upshot of all this was that Adrian could now focus his destructive
force on the enemy and not on trying to fly a ship, or on trying to give
it intelligible commands; Trycrur parsed every order and fulfilled it in
the blink of an eye, her mind moving at vastly faster speeds now that
she had been given access to the full power of Spot\'s computer.

"Anything out of the ordinary?" he asked, coming fully awake from his
dozing state. Trycrur had noticed that Adrian was both sleeping more and
was more relaxed than when they\'d last parted ways. He was still
unstable, but he no longer seemed as though he was on the verge of
mental collapse.

"The debris field is clouding sensor accuracy," she replied. He\'d
wisely filled her in on what he\'d been up to and what they intended, so
the lack of readings didn\'t concern her until they dropped into local
space.

There she could find the faint signal of an asteroid base, only made
possible thanks to the use of multiple arrays. Their journey here had
been slower than Adrian had wanted by several hours as Trycrur adjusted
the computer systems to cope with all of the modifications the ship had
suffered.

"Found it," she advised him, flicking the raw data into visual readings
for his benefit. She hailed the base, not wanting to wait for a reprisal
against their unexpected presence, and was concerned when no reply came.
Three more attempts and a full scan confirmed what she suspected. "No
answer to hails. Full scan reveals few life signs."

"What the fuck?" Adrian demanded, clearly alarmed. "There were a hundred
or more when I left."

Multiple scans produced a more accurate result. "Two, now."

Staring dumbly at the view screen, Adrian wet his lips and swallowed, a
clear expression of great concern. "Jesus... Askit..."

The ridiculously over--built sensor suite took another step towards
becoming Trycrur\'s favourite thing as the long--range warp detectors
began to peg several large, heavily suppressed warp signatures. That was
the sort of thing that Hunters used, along with everyone else who wanted
to launch a surprise attack. Suppressed warp was slower by a good
measure but neatly undetectable on most ships and poorer space stations,
and it was one of the few things that throwing more power at couldn\'t
overcome.

She put up the cloak before she even told Adrian. "Six large ships," she
said. "Coming on quiet, so I doubt they want to be friends. I took the
liberty of going quiet ourselves."

"Good idea," Adrian acknowledged. "Any idea who they are?"

Trycrur could guess a few possibilities but she didn\'t have anywhere
enough information to be sure. "Hard to say. You\'ll know when I do."

"Alright, then. Let\'s be quick," Adrian said, prefacing the option
Trycrur had already guessed he\'d take. "We\'re going--"

"To save those people," Trycrur finished, finding some amusement in his
expression of irritation. She knew what he would intend to do as soon as
she learned the full details of the situation. "I know. We\'re already
lock on course for docking."

"Well," he said, slightly miffed at having been predicted so completely,
"make sure you stay under cloak at all times. I have no fucking idea
whether those defences are set to automatic."

Trycrur cursed herself silently and tried to find out, annoyed to once
more discover that a faster mind did not always equate to a better mind.
"They\'re active," she said as the reports came back," and there\'s
enough firepower there to *end* us if we\'re detected."

Adrian lowered himself into the piloting seat in spite of being no kind
of pilot. "In that case," he said, deliberately, "we\'ll just have to
hope they can\'t spot Spot."
:::
