# S - Incompetence In Command
***Salvage***

---

**65 Million Years Ago**

The Zhadersil drifted in high orbit above the outpost world of Affrag,
its engines inert and few remaining hands standing by as the emergency
meeting was convened in the war room adjoining the command deck.

Shiplord Xagh waited for the last of his senior officers to seat
themselves before him. Their faces were all sombre, these meetings were
only for critical situations and they knew what was coming would not be
good news.

"My fellow V\'Straki," he said, greeting them as fellow beings rather
than subordinates -- a fact that was not lost on them -- "I have
received some truly devastating news."

He paused, letting them prepare themselves, although the tension in the
air was palpable. "Five teyrak \[five days\] ago, our beautiful
homeworld was directly targeted by the Igraen Alliance in a successful
attack of a scale we have never before witnessed. The planet we called
home is no longer habitable, and all those we loved are gone."

There were shocked murmurings around the table, disbelief that the
Igraen Alliance could be so bold, or so competent. The V\'Straki had
found the galaxy a surprisingly easy target, given their flimsiness
compared to other creatures on their homeworld, and each V\'Straki
warrior was worth a hundred or more of any Igraen species.

"Shiplord," Varr called out from his seat, the seat reserved for the
second--in--command. "How is this even possible? The last reports I saw
showed the Igraen military in tatters and their worlds in ruin."

"A simple act of desperation, Varr," Xagh replied. "A cloaked asteroid
of significant size. It was not detected until the debris field it
carried with it was already crashing through the orbital defense
network. It is clear that they hoped this action to cripple the Empire,
and I am sorry to say they were correct."

The officers were aghast. The homeworld effectively destroyed -- and
with it almost all of the females the V\'Strak Empire had -- was a
devastating blow, but the orbital defenses had included manufacturing
yards, colonial stations, and more. With that all gone, V\'Strak Empire
had lost its core world and more than 90% of the population.

"The Zhadersil is one of the few warships not currently engaged in
battle," Xagh continued, "and you all know that this was because we were
awaiting a refit. Our crew are few, our weapons outdated and our
complement of Exterminator Drones is down to just one unit with a dead
battery."

"We should still strike back," hissed Varr. "We cannot allow this to go
unpunished."

"The Zhadersil is not prepared for combat duty," Xagh spat back. "If we
were to direct it into battle, it would be overwhelmed by Igraen drones.
We would die, and the ship would become theirs. I will not allow this to
transpire!"

Varr looked like he was about to say something, but a glare from Xagh
and he remained silent. They were all under immense stress, and the only
way they would get through it would be to stick to the warriors code.

"We have lost contact with several major colonies more recently," Xagh
continued. "No inspection has yet been made on those systems, but the
Igraen are not particularly cunning, and it is likely that they have
repeated their plan on the colonies they are aware of."

"What about Affrag, Shiplord?" asked Tachot, the senior medical officer
to the Zhadersil and Xagh\'s good friend. "Are they likely to strike
here?"

"Affrag is a new colony and would not be known to them yet," Xagh
replied. "They are under instructions to disable all communications and
other detectable systems until further notice is given."

"What is the plan for us, Shiplord?" Varr asked.

Xagh sighed. "It cannot be helped that we cannot enter the battle, but
our forces are deploying fission--drones against all known enemy
strongholds. It is against the Galactic Charter, yes, but they broke it
first, and this is now a matter of our survival. Do not doubt that the
enemy has embarked upon a campaign of total genocide."

---

Two cadra (two months) had passed, and the Zhadersil had not moved from
its orbit above Affrag. The colony was still running silent -- as was
the Zhadersil -- and nerves were frayed. Xagh had had an argument with
Varr in full view of all the crew, and had then been forced to dispense
final justice to subdue any further resistance to his continued command.

"Five ships, three colonies," Dorn reported in their first private
meeting with him as second--in--command. "That\'s is how many V\'Strak
holdings remain, including the Zhadersil and Affrag."

"Then our enemy came very close to victory," Xagh said. He felt sick,
with those numbers there may be too few for the V\'Strak race to
recover; very few females had been allowed to leave the homeworld, and
as a result almost all of their eggs had been in that one basket.

"Our enemy is dead," Dorn stated. "There have been no further encounters
since the fission drones were deployed and their remaining fleet was
annihilated."

"I cannot believe they are all gone," Xagh said. "I doubt we have been
quite so thorough. What is the report on the homeworld?"

"Dust chokes its atmosphere," Dorn reported, "scientific projections
show that the climate has been irrevocably altered, and the temperature
has dropped sharply. It is unlikely that it will ever be habitable
again."

"Then the war is over and now we must attempt to rebuild," Xagh decided.
He had been considering the next course of action for some time, and had
finally come to the only conclusion available. "We\'re going to have to
abandon the Zhadersil."

Dorn stared at him. "Shiplord?!"

"There are no more refit stations, Dorn," Xagh told him. "This ship is a
relic, in dire need of repairs that we cannot give it, and we no longer
have an Empire to serve."

"That is treason..." Dorn said in horror.

"It is truth," Xagh replied fiercely. You said it yourself: five ships,
three colonies. How many females in those colonies, Dorn? Have you read
that? I have, and that\'s why I know that our greater duty is to our
species."

Dorn frowned, and looked through the details on his datapad. Then he
frowned more. "That\'s not..."

"I know," Xagh said. "Affrag has five, and that\'s as many as at Colvu
and Grikt combined. The other ships are *full* of males, Dorn, but they
are far from Affrag and are likely to converge on the other two
colonies."

"You\'re suggesting we become colonists?" Dorn asked dubiously. "I am no
farmer."

"Then be a hunter," Xagh said. "Be whatever you want, but you will be
amongst fifty males vying for the attentions of five females, rather
than three hundred males vying for the attentions of two or three!"

Dorn was silent, thoughtful. He nodded after some time. "As you say,
Shiplord, it seems to be the wisest option available to us."

"Good," Xagh said, pleased while also regretting the necessary
abandonment of his ship. "We will announce it to the crew together, and
then we will begin to strip the vessel of anything that may be useful in
our new home."

---

**Present Day**

Trycrur was still, not wanting to give the Corti a reason to shoot her.
He was smart -- he\'d already talked her into giving away the fact that
the bombs were fakes, and she no longer doubted that he could foresee
any action she might take. She couldn\'t even look at Adrian, she was so
ashamed of her ineptitude and cowardliness. She had obeyed the Corti\'s
orders once the truth had come out and although she felt completely
guilty over this she didn\'t want to die. Now she just waited for the
others to give themselves up to whatever the Corti had in mind, and hope
they felt merciful.

"Yeah, nah," said Adrian, and Trycrur finally looked at him in shock.

"Good," said Bekmer smugly, clearly pleased with his own deviousness.
"Now, if you will just--"

"That means no," Chir interrupted. "A positive followed by a negative is
a negative. The reverse is also true."

Bekmer paused, confused. "Is that true?"

Adrian lowered the barrel of his gun to point it at Bekmer. "Nah, yeah."

"I told you--" Bekmer began.

"I told you that you were dumber than a box of rocks," Adrian said.
"Mate."

"You will comply or die," Bekmer seethed. "The cerebral detonators--"

"Fuck you," Adrian said again, interrupting. "If you could kill us all
that way, you wouldn\'t need Treoffa to point the ship\'s guns at us.
Maybe you will kill these guys, but will Treoffa be fast enough to save
you from me?"

Bekmer was silent, and even his light grey skin seemed a little paler
than it had a moment ago.

Adrian had bared his teeth into a grin again, but Trycrur saw no
friendliness there now. She\'d learned that the nature of a human grin
could be read in their eyes, and all she saw there now was the black
savagery of a Deathworlder.

"You\'re going to do exactly what I fucking tell you, you bald little
shit," Adrian told the Corti vehemently. "That is *your* way out of
this. If you fight me, I will fucking kill you. If you use your little
detonator, I will kill you as slowly and agonisingly as possible."

Adrian leaned in towards the quickly wilting Corti. "DO YOU FUCKING
UNDERSTAND ME YOU ARSEHOLE?!" he screamed with so much fury that the
little alien actually fell over backwards in terror. Trycrur nearly fled
as well, such was the force of the violent intent surrounding the human.

"A fucking \'yes\' will do," Adrian spat at the fallen Corti.

"Y--yes," Bekmer whispered.

"Good," Adrian grunted, still staring down the Corti leader. "Treoffa,
do you hear me?"

"I can," her voice rang out from the ship. It was as shaky as Trycrur
felt.

"The deal is still on the table," he said. "If you\'re interested in
taking charge of *this* arsehole and getting these detonators out,
we\'ll help you out until we can get home."

Everyone waited, and the silence seemed to go on forever. The cold knot
of terror tightened in Trycrur\'s belly as she tried to guess what would
happen next.

"Bekmer," Treoffa\'s voice rang out again. "Your detonator code has been
disabled. In accordance with the charter relating to Incompetence in
Command I am replacing you as commander of the Salvage team and am
placing you in confinement in the Zhadersil\'s brig."


