# S - Grand Theft Starship
***Salvage***

---

**New Askitoria, the Outer Cluster**

Adrian\'s second shot ended with the destruction of only a single alien
missile, bringing the total remaining down to eight, a number that was
still excessively high, although Adrian considered that even one
unstopped missile was an excessively high number.

Fortunately it was about this moment that Spot opened fire, care of
Trix, and quickly annihilated the rest with a few quick blasts from the
coil--guns. The last few got close, though; so damned close that the
blast was only averted by Spot\'s kinetic field enveloping them under
its protection.

"That was some fucking good shooting, even if I do say so myself,"
Adrian commented to Trix as Askit got back to work. "I\'m like some
motherfucking shotgun wizard."

"How do you imagine that?" Trix asked, her voice hinting at some
unshared amusement.

Adrian frowned; he knew when he was the butt of some kind of joke, and
he was getting that kind of feeling now. "I just took down three of
those missiles with one fucking shot, and I did it with a visor that
barely works."

"You missed with every shot," she disillusioned him. "*I* took them out
with that robot\'s kinetic cannon. *You* were shooting at the thermal
ghosting on what little atmosphere remains."

"That is... disappointing," was the phrase he opted for. "I was shooting
at *air*, then?"

"Yes," Trix replied with a slight laugh, "but on the bright side you hit
it both times."

"Fucking hell," he swore back, unhappy to discover he held no particular
wizardry after all. "I was actually feeling really good about that..."

"I\'m not sure how you expected to hit *anything* with a visor in that
condition, but there\'s something else to brighten your day," she
replied. "It seems your Corti friend has been successful. The ships are
all moving off in separate directions."

Askit looked up towards him at that point, frowning but without any
fear. "It\'s done," he said, "but you\'re going to have to pick one to
steal. I had to adjust their destination coordinates and as we\'re in a
debris field I can\'t say how much damage may be suffered."

"But what you\'re saying is that we\'re going to get our fucking hands
on a big fucking Hierarchy ship," Adrian asked, already feeling excited.
"We should definitely take the ship this guy was on."

Askit nodded. "I agree. Now if you could please get us aboard your
invisible starship, we can go and fetch it before it turns into so much
wreckage."

Spot decloaked before Adrian could give the order. It seemed that Trix
had been eavesdropping, and had thought that Askit\'s idea was worth
doing. Had Adrian intended to object, he\'d have been overruled, and he
began to wonder just who was in charge of Spot in any case.

The ship set down a short distance away, extending its kinetics to
slowly draw them in, although their pet robot was left behind, likely on
the account of being far too large to fit. Askit responded by staring at
the ship with nothing less than complete disapproval, and looked over at
Adrian as if for an explanation. "You know, the fact that this thing
*works* is the true miracle of the day."

"Spot works fine," he said, frowning back. "She\'s just a little...
rough around the edges."

"Is that name some sort of joke about the cloaking system?" Askit asked
suspiciously.

Adrian decided against going into the topic of naming starships as
though they were dogs because they looked like a spotty Jack Russel\'s
head under infra--red light; they didn\'t have enough time and he
didn\'t think he had enough patience. "Sure."

Askit shook his head slowly as he entered the ship. "There\'s something
wrong with you, I swear."

"I don\'t want to hear that from the last guy on \'*New Askitoria*\'!
Did you really think I wouldn\'t notice that eventually?" Adrian shot
back as he followed, realising that the sight of all the
barely--in--place cabling would do nothing to assuage the little
Corti\'s concerns about its space--worthiness.

"Don\'t mind the mess," he said weakly, "I was in a bit of a hurry to
get here."

"What *happened* to this ship?" Askit asked, and looked around the
cockpit as he entered it with further confusion. "And where is the
pilot?"

"All around you," Trix replied, using every speaker in that extremely
disconcerting way. "But mainly inside the computer."

Askit whirled to face him in shock. "You have an *A.I.*?"

"More like a ghost," Adrian replied. "Askit, meet Trix, or more formally
Trycrur, a Rauwryhr female who died back on Cimbrean. Trix, meet Askit,
further information unnecessary."

"Further information unnecessary," Askit repeated, clearly uncertain as
to how he was to take that. "Why is she a computer now?"

"Hierarchy did it," Adrian explained in brief. "Come on, we\'re wasting
time. We\'ve got a ship to steal."

---

**Record 573--Black--06**

*+Recovered from C11--Orange--712--Yellow--6+*

The light of day showed the cabin greatly changed, its windows smashed
or hanging open and the bed without its sheets. The camera was lifted
from its position and pointed around haphazardly as it was taken in hand
by its latest owner. "I wonder where the naked girl went," the newcomer
mused. "I hope she\'s still alive..."

"So you can fuck her?" another male asked, this one huskier of voice,
albeit somewhat nasal. "Self--pleasure, Horic. Keep your mind sharp in
case of bandits."

"I didn\'t mean that..." Horic replied, sounding less than certain. "She
was just pretty, is all. Do you *have* to do that, Kregg?"

The camera pivoted towards a greying male with his finger in his nose.
He withdrew it with a scowl. "Don\'t watch, then."

Horic sighed. "Doesn\'t look like there\'s anything valuable except the
camera."

"There\'s nobody to buy things anyway," Kregg remarked bitterly, wiping
his soiled finger on his overalls. "We should get going, this place
doesn\'t look safe. Did you see that poor bastard down the road?"

"I think it was the guy in the sex--tape..."

"Yeah, well... that means it was *recent*," Kregg reckoned. "So if you
don\'t like being cooked, let\'s get a move on. I want to get as far as
we can before dark."

"Alright, alright," Horic replied, sounding harried. "I\'m going to take
this, though."

Kregg shook his head disdainfully. "I don\'t give a shit what you--"

**End Recording**

---

**Hierarchy Command Cruiser, vicinity of New Askitoria, the Outer
Cluster**

The size of the command cruiser was so enormous in comparison to that of
Spot, that it had been a simple matter to park it right on the internal
flight deck. It wasn\'t a carrier, however, so that didn\'t leave much
room for anything else to land, but Adrian hadn\'t cared about much
apart from Spot.

The process of subjugating the starship had been brief and
extraordinarily well--executed for the trio, although Adrian had elected
to have Trix remain behind in case shit went thoroughly sideways and
they needed to be extracted.

Shit did not go in any direction for a change; there were no internal
defenses, and no awful traps as there had been aboard the Zhadersil or
Hodgepodge, proving that even the Hierarchy didn\'t think of those sorts
of things. They were resisted by absolutely nothing, which would have
been a pleasant experience had Adrian not constantly been on edge for
the other shoe to drop, and the command cruiser was soon under Askit\'s
control.

He even managed to assume control of the two other autonomous vessels
that had not yet ploughed into significant space debris. They had
actually won a battle without losing anything important... except for a
fortress of an asteroid base, Keffa\'s little ship, and possibly Zripob.
All absolutely acceptable in terms of what they\'d gained.

"Now this," Adrian said, kicking back in the captain\'s chair as he was
accustomed, "is a victory."

Askit glared at him, apparently finding this as something of an affront.
"This is *my* ship, now, Adrian. My chair."

"No shit?" Adrian laughed, raising an eyebrow. He stood to allow the
little Corti to sit in his place, figuring that when it came down to it
it had been Askit\'s trap and mostly his hard work that had got them
here. "Alright, mate, you can have this one. I\'ve got the next."

"We\'ll see," Askit replied. "Right now I have to run an in--depth scan
of everything in case of \'emergency protocols\' lurking in the system."

That was fair enough, neither of them would want to re--live the
experience of nearly plunging into a black hole, and Adrian doubted that
Trix would particularly desire even a single such journey. "That\'s a
good fucking idea," he said. "How long is it likely to take?"

"How long is a programmatic string?" Askit replied with a shrug.

"I\'m going to assume that means you\'re not sure," Adrian decided,
figuring that it was probably the Corti equivalent of \'how long is a
piece of string?\', and therefore meant he had no fucking idea
whatsoever. "A rough estimate then?"

"At least a day," Askit conceded. "Probably a few."

"Good. That gives me time to go plunder the base for extras," Adrian
replied. "Are you going to be alright in here on your own?"

He wasn\'t all that keen on leaving the Corti alone for a second time,
considering that the last time had culminated in a surprise battle with
the Hierarchy, but more because he didn\'t want to condemn the little
guy to being devoured by a black hole if he could help it.

Askit may have been having similar thoughts, because he took his time
before answering. "I should be fine," he assured, hardly as confident as
Adrian would have liked. "I would ask that you have your ship return to
me upon dropping you off, however."

"Caution, good..." Adrian said approvingly. The wealth of information
they\'d managed to acquire demanded extreme care so that there was no
risk of ever losing it. The worth of the command cruiser, itself a
valuable prize, paled in significance to what may lay in its databanks.

Askit turned back to focus on his datapad, tapping a few buttons with
focused concentration. "I\'m submitting a manifest from New Askitoria so
that you\'ll have some idea what\'s worth your time and effort. There
should still be plenty of food containers, and various unimplemented
components for the defenses."

"I was going to take the power systems and the computer core," Adrian
replied. "I don\'t want that going to waste, and I don\'t want
information like that just left sitting there."

"Your ship will also need more ammunition," Askit reminded him, and it
was a good thing he did. Spot hadn\'t expended many of its slugs in the
battle, but it hadn\'t had many to start with.

"Then we\'d best get started," Adrian said, already considering the
logistics of his task; first supplies, and then spare parts, then power
and finally the computer core. "I do have one suggestion regarding your
remaining two ships, though."

Askit\'s only response to that was a distinctly querulous expression,
involving an almost imperceptibly raise of his left brow--line, and a
tilt of his head.

"Hand them over to the colony on Cimbrean," said Adrian, holding up a
hand to forestall any protest. "It gives them a chance to join in on
this little campaign of ours, and they can properly resource a *real*
force to throw at the fucking Hierarchy."

"You think they\'ll be willing to join in?" Askit asked cautiously,
although that meant he was not entirely against the idea. "It would risk
further response against your homeworld."

"I reckon they might," said Adrian. "Depends on what you find, and on
whatever the fuck else might happen."

Askit pondered further, spending a minute lost in thought, enjoying his
decision--making process by shifting around in his captain\'s chair,
finally came to a decision. "I accept, on the provision that they are
sufficiently motivated. I\'ll be more certain once I\'ve trawled the
data."

Adrian nodded. "Good enough."

---

**Irbzrk Orbital Factory, Main Station**

"So... we\'re rich," Keffa said, once she was capable of any reasonable
cognitive thought. Darragh had helped her out of the bank, and had
carried her out of there along with all the police weapons he could
carry, all on a hover--lifter that he\'d also stolen from the
institution. There would certainly be some questions asked over a second
robbery occurring right under the noses of the local police, but they
had been careful to wear disguises, and had prepared a place to switch
into costume for the final leg of their escape.

Chir had come up with the idea of dressing as humanoid beasts entirely
covered in hair, assuming the appearance of the species widely known on
the station as \'Uman--hay\'. The costumes were shoddy, barely holding
together under the strain of movement, but they served to do the job and
didn\'t fall apart until they were safely back aboard the unnamed
salvage runner.

"We\'re rich," Darragh told everybody. "The clerk was very helpful in
regards to that. Fifteen fecking *million* credits on a number of chits,
and a bank full of people who\'ll most likely be looking for new
employment come morning."

"Fortunately we don\'t need to care about them," Doctor Grznk replied,
running a medical scanner over both of them. "How do you both feel?"

"Fine," Darragh said with a shrug. "Keffa might feel a little
extra--crispy."

Keffa glared at him. "You better watch it or you\'ll be the next one
getting shot with a stun--gun."

Grznk waved his scanner over Keffa, ignoring her protests that she was
fine, and frowned. "Minor damage to nervous system, but knowing your
species it\'s not something to be worried about."

"Thank you," said Keffa, growing more irritable by the second. "Can you
get out of my way now?"

Grznk did so with only a slight sneer. He didn\'t like her much, that
was no secret whatsoever, although he disliked Adrian Saunders that much
more. Saunders had apparently, in an ironic twist, abducted the Corti
doctor from his own medical room aboard a Dominion warship, and had not
released him until he had assisted in the installation of basic
augmentations for Jennifer Delaney.

That being his first exposure to humanity, Keffa could hardly fault his
lack of tolerance for her species in general, and subsequent exposures
had not helped in the slightest.

Darragh passed the credit chits to Chir when he was asked to do so, then
found a place to dump the pile of weaponry. It was strange how they had
suddenly gone from having nothing to being as rich as kings, but
stealing from the most powerful financial institution had that kind of
effect.

"What\'s the plan now?" Layla asked, looking between them all. Keffa had
noticed that the Gaoian female had been more subdued lately, and moved
with greater care; although nothing had been announced yet, if she
considered the relationship Layla was now maintaining with Chir it
seemed certain that she was with child.

"Now we get out of here," Chir declared, taking up position at the helm.
"We\'ve taken on supplies--"

"We\'ve got supplies now?" Keffa asked, glancing down the corridor
towards where the cargo was stored. "When did that happen?"

"Do not interrupt me, Keffa," Chir scolded her, managing to make her
feel something akin to shame in spite of the informality of his
leadership aboard their little ship. "It happened while you were busy
with your own task. Did you imagine we would be sitting on our hands,
simply waiting for you to return?"

"You mean you do things when we\'re not here?" Darragh asked, making
mockery of her for a change. She found she didn\'t much like it. "How
did you intend to pay for all the supplies if we had failed?"

Chir gave him a blank stare, and initiated undocking procedures. "The
exact same way I\'m paying for them now."

"Oh my god..." Darragh gasped, breaking into a grin. "You really are a
fecking pirate after all!"

"Our own reputations -- such as they are -- have been protected by
thoroughly lying about our identities," Layla explained. "We have, in
fact, assumed the identity of the original owner of this vessel."

"So he\'ll soon be discovering that he\'s a wanted pirate?" Keffa asked,
feeling somewhat sorry for the poor alien who\'d not only had his ship
stolen but was now about to be framed for serious criminal activity.

"This one resisted our boarders," Chir replied, and left it at that.
That explained the fact that they had it in the first place, as well as
the recent and poorly attempted repairs.

Darragh sighed, his amusement gone now that he\'d been reminded of the
cost of the work they did. That was why Keffa had only been on salvage
duty; she had never been able to bring herself to willingly take a life,
or at least not directly. "On the bright side he won\'t need to worry
about prison."

"That privilege is reserved for us," Grznk grumped. "The only question
now is whether we can outrun justice for long enough that we can all die
of ripe old age."

---

**Date Point: 3Y 8M 2W 5D AV**

**Hierarchy Command Cruiser, vicinity of Cimbrean**

From the moment he\'d stepped from the lander, Powell had commenced his
own personal tour of his immediate surroundings, staring at the alien
architecture of the Hierarchy dropship with a mixture of wonder,
suspicion and fear, the latter most of all when faced with the edge of
the kinetically--created air bubble that separated the inside of the
ship from the emptiness of space.

The man looked distinctly out of his depth, which Adrian supposed was
completely normal for anyone the first time they set foot aboard an
alien starship. Maybe *he* was the weird one for having taken to it so
easily, although he sincerely believed that the human being could adapt
to anything, given the time and motivation.

Powell had been accompanied on this trip by Cliff and Gorge, the two men
who had the most experience watching over Adrian, and right now they
looked equally dumbfounded by their current location, but with less of a
sense of total unfamiliarity, no doubt thanks to their brief time
exploring the sunken Hodgepodge.

"*Two* of these things?" Powell asked, once he\'d finished coming to
terms with the scenery. "You\'re givin\' us *two* of these fookin\'
things? You said they weren\'t all that big, and you\'re fookin\' right,
\'cos it\'s fookin\' *ginormous*, is what this is! Where\'s the fookin\'
thing end?"

Adrian glanced around the flight deck, thinking it not that large
compared to what he\'d had aboard the Zhadersil, although it was
probably about as expansive as a normal naval carrier back on Earth, and
he had to remind himself that was actually very big to most people.
"It\'s supposed to be a deployment ship, so it *should* fit a small
fucking army. That\'s an *alien* army, though, so the pantry is going to
be a bit too small for a proper one."

Powell shook his head. "But *why* are you giving us two of the fookin\'
things? That\'s what I really want to know, Saunders."

"I\'ve got a surplus," Adrian replied, and although that was true it was
not entirely honest. The truth itself was several layers thick,
including their agreement several days prior, but also a strong desire
for some real fucking help against the Hierarchy, and a free pass back
to Earth. It also wouldn\'t be so bad if Powell felt he owed him one.
"Reckoned you might have had a use for the extras."

"Extras?" Powell muttered. "How many of these fookin\' things have you
got?"

"I\'m holding onto one," Adrian admitted, although technically Askit was
the one doing so, and he was wisely keeping the Askitorian -- a name he
would not be dissuaded from -- a few light years distant so as to avoid
the same fate as the Hodgepodge. "We destroyed a space fortress, a few
other ships, and an army of fucking robots in the process."

Powell turned away and rubbed his brow unhappily. "Jesus fookin\'
Christ," he said, appalled. "I let you loose for one fookin\' week and
you go break a chunk of the fookin\' galaxy!"

Adrian shrugged. "I was already doing that..."

Cliff decided, against his better judgement, that he wanted to add his
own two cents to the conversation. "Sorry... did you just say you broke
a fuckin\' *fortress*?"

The man almost seemed to be impressed, but he\'d spoken when he should
have remained respectfully silent and earned a stern look of rebuke from
Powell. That shut him up, just as it might have once done to Adrian,
back when he still had any kind of a shit to give about chain of command
or the military in general.

Powell looked tired, a state that other people seemed to find themselves
in frequently when confronted by the things Adrian brought to them, good
or bad. "Saunders, you know that my men aren\'t even fookin\' close to
being equipped to fly these fookin\' things. What the hell am I supposed
to do with them? If something comes by, they\'ll get seen for certain,
and then we\'ll be in a world of shit."

"I\'ve got a day or two to show your best and brightest the bare
essentials," Adrian offered. "As for hiding, both of them have beyond
cutting--edge cloaking technology, care of the motherfucking Hierarchy.
Shitload of cloaking missiles, too."

"Your *invisible* fookin\' ships fire invisible fookin\' *missiles*?"
Powell asked slowly, lacking any kind of expression that suggested he
found this particular revelation a happy one. "That is *not* fookin\'
good, Saunders!"

Unlike Cliff and Gorge, who seemed to illuminate at overhearing that
sort of thing, Powell was intelligent enough to see the problem with
finding a new toy that your enemy likely had in far greater numbers.
Adrian, for his part, had learned the same lesson by experiencing them
from the really dangerous end of the stick, and didn\'t wish to repeat
the experience unless he absolutely had to.

"I know," he said, turning and beginning the walk towards the more
comfortable offices beyond the flight deck, "but I\'m not here to talk
about invisible missiles, or even about these starships."

Powell followed close behind. "You brought two of \'em and you don\'t
even want to talk about them? What kind of fookin\' shit have you got to
send my way this time, Saunders?"

"The last few days my Corti mate has been busy making sure there\'s
nothing in these computer systems that would endanger the crew," Adrian
replied. "Aside from that, the fucking arsehole who used to own this
ship tried to wipe the memory, so now he\'s busy trying to put it all
back together, and in the process he discovered something really fucking
interesting."

They entered the office, an undecorated little room very obviously
intended to serve the purpose. Unlike Celzi vessels which favoured a
white and grey colour scheme, the Hierarchy ships maintained a metallic
shine in all things, although they had been surfaced with a thin, fully
transparent film of protective gel. There was a single viewscreen here
that Adrian had prepared earlier, showing a whirling set of data flowing
across the screen.

"What the fook is that supposed to be, then?" Powell asked, taking a
seat on the \'I\'m in charge here\' side of the table and frowning at
the incomprehensible data.

Adrian, for his part, elected to stand so as not to play into that
little game. "You got an open mind, Powell?"

Powell\'s eyes narrowed on him, showing that he was clearly past the
point of being toyed with on this particular excursion. "Spit it out,
Saunders."

"I ask because that\'s what I have," Adrian said with a growing smile.
"Powell, please meet the motherfucker who chased me off Cavaras. This is
*Zero*, or what\'s left of him."

"*This* is an Hierarchy agent?" Powell asked, raising a sceptical
eyebrow. "You\'ve actually fookin\' captured one?"

"Not exactly," Adrian admitted. "He\'s dead, so all this shit is just
his memories."

Powell stared at him for moment, his mouth hanging slightly open,
closing intermittently as though he was about to say something then
decided against it. Finally he swallowed and asked the question.
"You\'ve got access to all of this bloke\'s memories?"

"Yeah," Adrian confirmed with a smile. "I do."

"Saunders," Powell said, looking flabbergasted, "this intel is--"

"Completely fucking useless to you, aside from the bits I can get out of
it," Adrian finished. "Or more specifically, the bits my people can get
out of it. Turns out analysing an alien mind is hard fucking work unless
you know what you\'re looking for."

"You wouldn\'t be showing me this fookin\' thing if you didn\'t have
*anything*," Powell replied, quite accurately. It was a relief in some
ways to have somebody to talk to who didn\'t need absolutely everything
to be explained to them, even if he did have a rod up his arse.

Adrian responded by taking out a datapad and sliding it across the table
into Powell\'s hands. "*That* is what I\'ve got," he said. "Some names,
some places. Enough to get started."

"And the rest?" Powell asked, looking over the data that had, very
helpfully, been transcribed into English. "You\'re not going to go get
yourself fookin\' killed before you can get it to us, are you?"

"I\'m only a *little* crazy," Adrian protested, although he knew he\'d
had a few too many close calls already. "We\'ll be spending some time on
my own little planet while we do what we can to get the rest of this
shit figured out."

---

**The Governess, approaching Deathworld C11--Orange--712--Yellow--6, The
Ilrayen Band**

Jennifer Delaney. Mid--twenties, space--babe adventurer and
beginner--mode survivalist, professional explorer and accidental bank
robber. Not quite as bald as she had been a few days ago, either, even
if her hair was coming back in patches. At least while she was alone
there would be nobody to laugh at how stupid she looked.

New Jen had considered shaving it all off again, mostly just to spite
Old Jen who still lamented the loss of her hair. But that was the same
as acknowledging that the shadow\'s opinion mattered to her, which it
absolutely did not. The problem with that argument was that Old Jen had
been the one to actually make it, but New Jen reasoned that by accepting
it as valid she immediately rose above such silliness and it was no
longer a problem.

Not that it didn\'t still grate at her.

Fortunately for her continued sanity she had her work to focus on. That
mostly involved waiting to get some place, but it also required
extensive study and organisation. Study of all of the tests she needed
to do to make sure that a planet was viable -- even Class Ten
Deathworlds could be dangerous to humans as well -- and organisation to
make sure she only visited those matching certain criteria, such as
gravity, atmosphere, resources and biological hazards. She had then
plotted a schedule that minimised her time in the confines of the
Governess.

She had elected to begin her new life of exploration and adventure in
the Ilrayen Band, a section of space adjacent to the Far Reaches where
the nebula thickened and where Deathworlds were the norm; exactly the
sort of place considered completely uninhabitable by the rest of the
galaxy. Out in these hazy spaces, where new stars mingled with old, a
regular starship would need to degauss and make routine repairs. The
Governess was built against such problems, however, and took constant
measures to prevent hull ionisation and the litany of related problems.

Today she would be making her initial survey of a Class Eleven world,
and one that closely matched Earth in basic terrestrial attributes. The
planet -- she\'d decided to call it Cisco for personal convenience since
the planetary reference was too annoying to use any number of times --
had two moons, and although neither were as large as that of Earth they
were only half the distance from it. She uninventiveley dubbed them
\'Big moon\' and \'Little moon\', far from perfect but good enough to
stick until the planet proved itself one way or another.

"Let\'s see what Cisco has for us today," she announced, flicking on the
active sensors and giving the planet a quick sweep for basic mapping.

She hadn\'t expected to get pinged back. "Oh shit..."

"What could be on a Deathworld?" Old Jen asked, envisioning scenes of
death camps or secret research institutions, the discovery of either of
which would mark her for capture or death.

New Jen had the same thoughts, but controlled the fear that went with
them. "Could be *anything*!" she replied, although she couldn\'t think
of what else it might be.

She used an infuriatingly trembling hand to issue another, more specific
scan on the target that had scanned her back. Some kind of ship,
half--buried in the terrain, was continuing to sweep her with active
sensors. Jen did the same to it, there was, after all, plenty of time
before--

Something hit her ship, powerful enough to flicker the lights, loud
enough to suggest an explosion, and the ship lighting automatically
switched to emergency green, which wasn\'t the most reassuring of signs.
Absolute terror shot through her, stifled only barely by New Jen\'s iron
will; she utterly refused to let her fear control her, and forced her
attention away from what had happened and towards getting herself the
fuck out of there.

The Governess showed a remarkable unwillingness to respond to her
promptings to run away, however, and she brought up the damage report to
figure out why.

It didn\'t take long.

"Engines are damaged," she reported to herself, finding that keeping up
the conversation somehow calmed her. "Or at least they\'re not getting
the power to the Kinetic drives. We\'re running on whatever the
artificial gravity system can give us."

"We can\'t fly out on *that*," Old Jen determined, accurately if not
helpfully. "I do not want to be stranded on another fucking alien
planet! We\'ll *never* be found out here!"

"Shut up," New Jen ordered, and nodded appreciatively as Old Jen went
into a quiet sulk; if she was going to be negative she could do it on
her own. "What would... what would Adrian do... have done?"

"Crash the ship," Old Jen mused, breaking her silence. "Probably."

"He\'d probably try and fix the engines," New Jen decided, opting to
ignore the truth in what her counterpart had said. "I probably have
something to fix it with..."

But that was Adrian\'s area of expertise and she didn\'t have enough
time to *learn*. She had about enough time to learn how to crash,
though, so the original suggestion looked like it was going to be the
one she went with. "Fuck."

The artificial gravity systems were levelled fully against the velocity
of the ship, slowing it slowly but surely so that she could begin to
plan an approach vector. Something that would bring her close to the
arseholes who\'d shot her down, without getting her so close that
they\'d shoot her down a second time. Odds were good that she was going
to need to go and beat the shit out of whoever had fired on her, if only
to steal their supplies and equipment, so she didn\'t want to enjoy a
cross--continental hike in order to do so.

"That\'ll work," she said, finding the correct vector as she began to
hit atmosphere. She set the ship to automatic, and pressed herself back
into her chair to pray, wide--eyed and terrified, to a God she didn\'t
really believe in until it was convenient for a miracle to happen. Like
right now.

"Oh please, God! Oh please, God!" she chanted as the landmass loomed up
to meet her, a snow--covered sub--alpine region that met high mountains
to the north and expansive forests and plains to the south. The
Governess descended with a shrieking howl, sweeping past a massive, grey
slab of a mountain and striking westwards past dusk and into the
darkness of night.

The normally imperceptible braking of the Governess was gone for all of
this, replaced by the full gravity of the planet below and the
shuddering of the starship trying to counteract it. It all ended as the
small exploratory ship hit a descending slope of snow and, smashing
through several small trees in the process, slowly skid to a halt.

Jen caught her breath, swallowing hard several times and failing several
times to stand on wobbling legs before her calm resolve recovered enough
to allow it. Then she stumbled over to the airlock, opened it, and
looked out across the primitive snow and forest covered world beyond.
"Oh, shit."

---

**Record 573--Black--07** *+Recovered from C11--Orange--712--Yellow--6+*

The countryside was a verdant green, or at least it was wherever it
hadn\'t been burned. Fire had cut through fields and left long paths of
black around untouched lands, and the air was filled with a sprinkling
of ash.

"At least it\'s not as bad as the city," Horic mused. "Behold, dear
viewer, the world beyond civilisation!"

"Again with that camera," Kregg said irritably. "At least you\'re
*recording* with it, though. I thought your hands were going to go bald
with all the self--pleasuring you\'ve been doing."

"K--Kregg!" Horic choked in horror, turning the camera towards his older
companion. "I\'m... this is for posterity!"

Kregg shook his head dismissively. "Nobody is going to want to watch
your shitty video. Besides, you *should* be watching for bandits. I
don\'t want another *situation*."

"We\'re not going to get another *situation*," Horic replied, mimicking
Kregg childishly. "Besides, this thing has a zoom lens... you just
adjust this and..."

The camera focused in on a ridge and a glint of metal.

"Huh..."

There was a crack of gunfire, and the camera fell to the ground,
pointing at the surprised, motionless face of Horic\'s corpse.

"Horic!" Kregg shouted in alarm. "Are you--"

Another crack silenced Kregg.

Then, but for the gentle rustling of the wind, the world remained silent
until the battery ran dry.

**End Recording**

---

**Date Point: 3Y 8M 2W 5D AV**

**Nameless Salvage--Runner, Dominion Space**

Chir was rich, he was free, and beyond returning Layla back to the
female clan on Gao he was completely aimless. He had not wanted her to
go, she had been excellent company both in and out of his quarters, but
he had been unable to offer her a compelling reason to stay. "Come and
join my life of endless crime and running away" was not the most
attractive of propositions, and they owed it to their child to ensure he
or she was raised in the relative safety of the homeworld.

The events on Exoss, reaching their ears as they made approach to the
star system, had changed things drastically for the worse, and Chir
thought it prudent not to start advertising the presence of two humans
aboard the worthless piece of crap that shunted them around. That meant
handing Layla over into the care of a Gaoian patrol, while the humans
hid in the safety of their quarters, and Chir would be carrying a
stun--bolt powered for non--human incapacitation; they were his species,
but they were not necessarily his friends.

Originally, Chir had simply intended to say his goodbyes with Layla --
hoping to see each other in better days -- and leave her with the patrol
cruiser. From there he would depart, making his way to a brighter future
where Adrian Saunders or his friends would not be able to precipitate
the destruction of all his hard work.

That had been his intent, but Glorel, the Ship Master of the Vaulting
Star Patrol Cruiser, had decided otherwise and had \'invited\' Chir
aboard for a brief chat about life, piracy, and how he should just piss
off forever and die in a hole. The most surprising thing of all of that
was that in spite of being of a different clan, Glorel knew exactly who
Chir was and was apparently not his biggest fan.

He had also decided to make his loathing exceedingly clear, and had
strategically opted to do so in front of Layla, so as to cause maximum
humiliation. Given the massive size of him compared to Chir and the fact
that he was flanked by two of his trusted soldiers, it was clear that
Glorel expected to say his piece and have Chir stand there and take it.
That was how it worked on Gao when one male clearly outmatched another,
or at least it did amongst the most churlish individuals.

"It simply staggers me that *you* could be the renowned Commander Chir,"
Glorel sneered, confident that his position put him as far above Chir in
social status as he was in physical terms. "The way the stories filter
down, you\'re supposed to be (three meters) tall, and capable of
crushing Hunters with a single strike."

He smiled coldly. "Or so I\'ve heard."

"Go fuck yourself, Glorel," Chir replied flatly, taking a cue from
Adrian Saunders without being entirely sure why. It wasn\'t as though
the human disaster zone had accomplished much besides pulling the right
people into the disasters he caused -- his attempts at anything else had
universally met with failure -- and yet here was Chir, telling a Gaoian
*superior* to go and mate with himself.

Glorel did not seem impressed by the suggestion, and grew immediately
angry at what was very obviously a direct, and unforgivable insult. "You
are *very* bold, though. Is that a threat? Shall I show you what happens
to males who threaten *me*, Chir?"

Chir shot the smug bastard in the crotch, which proved a surprise to
Chir himself as well as everybody else in the room, particularly Glorel.
Chir didn\'t waste any time in peeling off a shot at each guard before
they managed to get their own weapons up and ready, and soon he was
along with Layla in a room full of twitching Gaoian soldiers.

She stared at him wide--eyed, confused and horrified at the sudden
escalation from a mean--spirited dressing--down to less--than--lethal
gunfire. "What... what are you *doing*!?"

Chir wasn\'t really sure, but whatever it was he was committed now, and
it looked like he was making up the plan as he was going along. "I
guess... I\'m stealing a starship."

"P--Pirate...!" Glorel gasped from the floor, gripping his crotch in
complete agony.

Chir shot him there again for good measure, and after a shriek of agony
the oversized fool learned a thing or two about shutting up.

"You\'re stealing a Gaoian starship, Chir..." Layla reminded him.
"That\'s a crime--"

"Only if I\'m stealing it from Gao itself," Chir reminded her. "A battle
between males can involve the exchange of property and position."

"This ship is full of soldiers..." one of the guards gasped, trying to
raise his weapon only to lower it as Chir pointed at the male\'s crotch.
"Over a hundred of them... you won\'t be able to seize it."

Chir shot the guard in the crotch anyway, and did the other just the
same to ensure universal compliance. Then he stepped over to the
shipwide communications system and sent out his message.

"Attention, Gaoians. I am Chir the Privateer, you may have heard of me.
I have just defeated your ship master and his two guards
single--handedly, and I have a ship full of humans who\'ve been aching
for a fight. Anybody who *wants* to get \'fucked up\', as the humans
say, may proceed to come and enjoy the same kind of experience your Ship
Master has received, otherwise you can get off my ship."

He terminated the communication, and looked over at the increasingly
horrified Layla with a shameless grin. "How many do you think will
come?"

"A--all of them!" Glorel gasped, very determinedly. "They\'ll throw your
worthless hide into *space*!"

Gripping the stun--gun with both hands, Chir pointed it down at Glorel
and watched the man shrink away with considerable pleasure. He grinned,
the same kind of predatory grin that Adrian used when he was about to do
all kinds of destructive things. "Goody."

Glorel then learned that Chir really was an excellent shot.


