# S - Revisionist History
***Salvage***

---

**Date Point: 3Y 9M 5D AV**

**Spot, landed in wilderness on Perfection**

**Adrian Saunders**

"Nothing."

Looking up from his own console, Adrian raised his eyebrow at the little
Corti's report and wondered if he was just messing with him. "You're
fucking joking? I blew up a planet... I created a huge fucking black
hole and probably annihilated an entire star system. That's the sort of
shit that gets some attention, but you're telling me there's nothing?"

"I don't think you understand," Askit replied, scowling slightly at the
assertion he'd been inventing his report. "There's nothing on Hravin. No
record of it. There's no news on Hravin precisely because according to
every source outside of this ship there *is* no Hravin!"

Adrian blinked, trying to make sense of what he'd just been told.
"Sorry, but... what?"

"It's *gone*, Adrian," Askit replied. "Trust me when I say I find it
even stranger than you do, because I know just how thoroughly every
mention of it has been expunged."

Shaking his head at his continued inability to understand what was going
on, Adrian reclined into his seat and stared at his Corti companion. "I
don't understand. How is that even possible?"

"Perhaps it was your Hierarchy?" Xayn suggested. "Though I am not sure
how they would benefit."

"They wouldn\'t," Adrian replied. "They\'d benefit more from exposing it
and garnering public support for destroying Earth altogether. That was
why I asked Askit to trawl for any information in the first place."

"It's *not* possible, but just to be sure I've checked about fifty
randomly selected navigational systems on the planet," Askit explained.
"None of them have Hravin listed. There are also no celestial objects at
its location."

"What about what Xayn said?" Adrian asked. "Something to do with the
Hierarchy, or even someone else?"

"I considered it and checked," Askit replied. "A lot of those systems
haven't received an update in... ever. The Hierarchy might be dangerous,
but are they so competent and pervasive that they could have already
changed everything everywhere and covered their own tracks? Having seen
them at work I doubt it."

"The navigational reference still exists in our listing," Trix helpfully
reported. "I took the liberty of cross--referencing the coordinates with
the planetary database, and discovered that---"

"The only thing shown for that area is a nebula with an unusual density
of exotic sub--atomic particles," Askit finished, interrupting her. "I
was *getting* to that. I will also note that I\'ve contacted some
researchers whose names we pulled from the research station\'s databanks
and they didn\'t recognise what I was talking about."

"Okay..." Adrian began, his frown deepening as his sense of impending
trouble rose. "Are you telling me that I\'ve not only destroyed a star
system but that I\'ve entirely erased it from reality? Because that
sounds really fucking bad, even to me."

"That does seem to be the case," Trix replied, and Askit nodded in
agreement. Both of them seemed about as worried as Adrian felt, which at
least meant that there were roots to his suspicion of having lost
control of the situation.

"Fuck," Adrian breathed. "We can\'t tell anybody about this. Ever."

"Oh really?" Askit asked with heavy sarcasm. "Surely we want *everyone*
to know that you have the ability to completely and permanently erase
them and everyone they care about from time!? That will certainly make
our lives easier."

"Whatever they\'ve thought of you so far," Trix replied in a more
measured tone, "that sort of information would turn you and the human
race into a threat that would need to be eliminated."

"That doesn\'t explain why we still remember anything," Adrian noted; he
could deal with the possibilities of messing around with the timeline so
long as it made some sort of logical sense. "Was it just because we were
there? Or because I caused it? Has anything else changed as a result of
this?"

"Impossible to know," said Askit. "Wouldn\'t know where to start
looking, and I don\'t have the original information to cross reference
absolutely everything that is known to find whatever has changed."

"An update to the navigational system indicates that there is a minor
offset in stellar coordinates," Trix reported. "I would imagine this
indicates that it has always been gone, and I suspect it might have
something to do with the matter/anti--matter mix burning away the
singularity from within. As to why we can remember, it seems likely to
have something to do with our proximity, and maybe the use of warp and
gravity spikes... I\'m unfamiliar with the non--existent science on
changes to history, so I don\'t care to hazard a guess."

Chuckling in black mirth, a deep and throaty sound, Xayn clapped
together his hands in the way he\'d seen Adrian do before. "Truly a
terrifying weapon! I doubt even the Deceiver could have managed that! I
believe you have joined the ranks of the most dangerous individuals in
--- or in this case possibly out of --- history! Have you considered
what you could do with this power? You could eliminate the Hierarchy
from ever existing, simply by annihilating their homeworld! The same
would be true of the Hunters."

"That\'d solve a lot of problems in the galaxy," Trix replied
thoughtfully. "But it would be hard to know the ramifications."

Adrian just shook his head. "I... never thought I\'d say this, but there
was this one episode of Star Trek that deals with exactly that."

"First you need to explain \'Star Trek\'," Askit noted. "Context might
be useful for this."

"Yeah," Adrian agreed. "Basically an entertainment drama set on board a
starship, there were a few different independent stories... in this one
the idea was that the ship was transported to the other side of the
galaxy and they were trying to get home."

"That is a considerable distance," Trix reported, likely having spent a
moment to calculate it. "It would take a long time if you didn\'t use
wormhole technology, or didn\'t have a Corti Sealed--FTL drive."

"That was part of the overall story," Adrian replied. "In this specific
story they run into these aliens who are erasing things from time to try
and get things back to how they were."

"I can immediately tell you that would be equal parts self--defeating
and stupid," Askit remarked. "And I\'m no time--scientist."

"Well, obviously," said Adrian, "but the point is that every time they
erased something it was basically guesswork to see if things would turn
out better or worse. Long story short, erasing anything that\'s had any
kind of importance is just going to turn into a giant clusterfuck. I
wouldn\'t have done it at all if I\'d had even the slightest fucking
notion that it was possible."

"So what do we do now?" Askit asked. "If anybody does find out about
this, your species is dead. If anyone finds out how to build this... I
don\'t even want to know!"

"First of all, we don\'t talk about it," Adrian told them. "And don\'t
let those Hierarchy guys capture you, otherwise they\'ll just pull the
information right out of your brain."

"I\'m updating to the most recent Navigational database and wiping the
archive," Trix reported. "And I\'m scrubbing all the details about what
happened at Hravin. That means the video feed as well."

Adrian groaned, he\'d really wanted to be able to keep that, but it was
so obvious that it\'d have to go that he couldn\'t contest it. "I
know... we\'re also going to have to start talking about erasing our
memories."

"Trycrur can do that easily," Askit replied. "Corti memory is modular,
so I should also be able to manage it with a bit of effort and access to
a Corti medical suite, though we\'d have to destroy it after. But the
two of you..."

"The two of us aren\'t so easy," Adrian finished. "There\'s only one way
that I can think of to do that, and I\'m not super--fucking--keen on the
idea..."

"Mind upload, edit, then re--download?" Askit guessed, likely inspired
by the way Adrian was staring at the computer console so unhappily.
"There\'s only one group we can go to if we want that sort of service."

"That\'s half the reason we\'re going to Point Zero in the first place,"
Adrian replied. "We were going to get Trix put back in a body, and if it
turns out we can get ourselves sorted out at the same time, more the
better."

"What about the Deceiver," Xayn asked. "Or whoever he was? It is
possible he is still out there, or that he was not the only one of his
kind. It would be extremely dangerous to forget about an enemy that
powerful."

"I will create a record of its capabilities and our interaction," Trix
replied. "Censored appropriately. I think we\'ll understand."

"Alright," Adrian decided, "put that together. There\'s nothing more to
say on this matter, so don\'t talk about it. The fewer memories we need
to wipe, the better."

They sat around quietly pondering the situation for a few more minutes
--- everyone was too hesitant to push forward with any further
discussion --- and were only stirred by the timely arrival of Chir\'s
vessel.

Indicating that the others should remain seated, Adrian rose alone. "The
fewer of us who go, the less likely we are to screw this up. We need to
figure out what they remember, if anything, without tipping them off
that anything is wrong."

"Are you sure?" Askit asked. "Maybe they\'d benefit from hearing about
the V\'Straki origin?"

"Unfortunately there won\'t be time," Adrian replied. "While I\'m gone I
want you to check their systems, see if they match up to ours or to
Perfection\'s, and what their records indicate. I assume you\'ve already
given yourself total access to their computer systems?"

"I... yes," Askit said, looking indignant. "You don\'t have to put it
like that, though. When I do it to friends it\'s just to keep them
safe."

"Right," Adrian replied, knowing full well that the little Corti was
paranoid enough to do it in case the other ship was ever taken over by
the enemy, or if Chir and company turned against them. "Just get it done
and let me know the answer over my translator, which I *know* you have
access to. Don\'t go worrying about me, everything will be fine."

⁂

**Date Point: Unknown**

**The Amber Radiance, Mercenary Vessel, Hravin System**

**Laphor Metmin**

Leaving had proved impossible.

Warp had not worked. A warp field had generated, but it had not allowed
them to travel anywhere except closer to the dark heart of the
singularity, and having established that was the case they\'d just
stopped making the attempt. Nearly (two months) had passed since that
time, and the food was beginning to run out. If that happened, instincts
would take over, and those who ate meat would undoubtedly do what was
needed to survive just a little bit longer.

Six Skulls Zripob would probably end up the last living member aboard
the ship if it came to that, which was far from the ideal outcome to
their joint--venture, but thus far he had shown no indication that he
would slaughter anyone and had in fact been lending his assistance where
possible in their attempt to escape.

"I\'ve spoken with your crew," he told her now, speaking to her
privately. "This vessel lacks the sensor capabilities of an exploratory
ship, but we have had the advantage of being able to monitor what\'s out
there."

"Go on," Laphor urged, knowing he was going somewhere important with
this; there was no reason for him to have called a meeting if he hadn\'t
found something.

"We\'re trapped in a bubble," he said. "To quote your technicians, it is
a \'secondary event horizon projected by the singularity\'. The whole
star system is captured by it."

"How is that possible?" Laphor asked. "Can we get out of here?"

"Maybe," Zripob replied, but with hesitation and uncertainty let
undisguised. "Your people suggest that it is the result of the way the
mass of the singularity is diminishing, and all the exotic particles
leaking from it. Both factors have sharply increased since the star fell
into it, and the boundary of the secondary event horizon is shrinking at
an equal rate."

"So we just need to let it pass us?" Laphor asked. "It can\'t be that
simple."

"We can\'t know that anything is actually being set free," said Zripob.
"It\'s more likely it is being annihilated. The only real chance is to
use a wormhole."

Laphor laughed bleakly. "That\'d be fine, but we don\'t have a wormhole
generator, Six Skulls."

"No," Zripob replied. "You don\'t. But we have detected something that
might. It\'s unknown technology, and it\'s much closer to the
singularity than we are, but is our only chance."

⁂

**Date Point: 3Y 9M 5D AV**

**Aboard the Mercenary Ship, Devastator**

**Adrian**

Chir studied Adrian with more intensity than Adrian was used to. From
the moment he\'d sat down there\'d been an unusual amount of scrutiny,
and Chir had kept staring Adrian in the eyes.

"Good of you to join us," the Gaoian had greeted him, though it was
obvious he was suspicious for one reason or another. Hopefully Askit
could figure out why that might be and let him know.

"Good to be here," Adrian replied, looking around the others with some
discomfort. Doctor Grznk was notably absent. "Where\'s Grizzles?"

They shared a confused glance, though it did look like he\'d already
made a serious faux--pas.

"We do have some sense of cleanliness," Layla replied, entering and
taking a seat alongside Chir. "We weren\'t just going to leave him all
over everything."

"Or in my mouth," Darragh added in disgust. "Bleagh, I\'ll never get the
fecking taste out."

Keffa held his hand reassuringly and gave him a smile. "We\'ll get a
nice meal while we\'re here."

Adrian wasn\'t sure which part of the current situation to be more
surprised by, but elected to stare at the only one that he was certain
still waited in stasis back in his meat--pod. "Uh... hello, *Layla*."

"That... is unexpected," Askit interjected, speaking directly to Adrian
through his translator. "We\'ve still got her here. There\'s no way
that\'s good for causal reality, so we probably shouldn\'t let them
meet."

Layla smiled at him, but spared a confused glance with an equally
puzzled Chir. "Hello, Adrian. Thank you for helping me with this, it
means a lot to both of us."

"Yes," Adrian replied, very hopeful that it was the same reason as it
was before. "Though I think I\'ll let you guys take the lead on this
one."

Askit was quick to help rectify his ignorance. "We\'re all skimming the
records here, Adrian. There are a few big differences, mainly that Layla
appears to be a welcome consort to Chir, and that she helped us rescue
him from the Corporations. We\'re here for the same reason, but it turns
out that Grznk was killed when we had our meeting in the Hravin nebula."

"How?" Adrian asked, and then seeing that everyone was staring at him
curiously. "I mean how are you wanting to do this?"

Askit answered first. "He was a Hierarchy host. Unwittingly downloaded
one while he was getting the engineering mind--module... I should have
thought of that, Adrian..."

"They don\'t know we\'re coming," Chir said, "and we have three humans
and a V\'Straki. I think we\'ll be fine so long as we don\'t make
another big fuss and draw attention from the local authorities."

"You can\'t just go blowing everything up anyway," Layla added. "You
can\'t put my children at risk."

Askit waited for a brief silence before continuing his hurried
explanation. "It looks like I figured it out, and when we attempted to
confront him he just blew the implant and killed Grznk. Messy way to
die."

"We\'ll do our best to be careful, then," Adrian promised her. "We\'ll
keep it low key and do it right."

"There are two entrances," said Darragh, taking an unusual amount of
initiative and bringing a floorplan up on the room\'s main screen. "Or
at least two that we\'ll be using. Chir, Keffa and I will all be going
in on this one."

He pointed to the side that was clearly the least guarded, and then he
pointed to the front door. "And this is where you and your team will be
focusing."

"I thought you said you didn\'t want me to blow everything up?" Adrian
asked, trying to think how else he might get into a place like that.

"We\'d hope you might try and keep things quiet," Keffa answered. "Maybe
have Askit shut down security systems while you take out the guards
themselves. This place is pretty out of the way, so we don\'t have to
worry about attracting attention from outside the area unless you start
firing shipboard weapons or destroying the building itself."

"Not going to lie," Darragh continued. "We feel better about letting you
deal with the fortified guys."

"So... it\'s Plan B for me and Xayn," Adrian replied. "Great, because I
was just saying to the guys that it\'s been too long since a plan fell
apart and resulted in a frantic gunfight."

"We don\'t want them alerted," Darragh warned. "Are you able to do this
quietly, or not?"

"Wow," Askit muttered, "the boy finally grew some testicles."

Briefly reflecting that the phrase really sounded wrong when put like
that, Adrian kept his mind focused on the meeting itself.

"We can do it," he assured them. "It\'ll be fine. But now I\'ve got
something I need to warn you all about."

They looked at him with the kind of expression you\'d expect from
someone if you\'d just shit in their cereal. "What is it this time?"
Chir asked.

"It wasn\'t my fault this time," Adrian told them as he brought the
details about the strange alien up on his own data--pad. "Honestly, I
don\'t know who this motherfucker is or why he\'s got a problem with
me..."

He slid it across the table and let them look at it before continuing.
"Big ship, yeah? Stupid looking bird--lizard? Xayn tells me it all
matches up to the V\'Straki creator--god."

"That\'s impossible," Darragh replied, flicking between the images.
"That\'s... so long ago. And it\'s so big... how did you get away from
this thing?"

"I was lucky," Adrian said in absolute honesty. "It\'s cloaking is good
--- even my ship could barely detect that thing --- but it uses the same
kind of weapon as the Zhadersil. If you ever detect a low--power warp
field, hit the gravity spike immediately. I think we lured it into an
accident with a star, but we can\'t be sure it\'s actually gone for
good."

"You\'ve been busy," Chir said. "We really need to stop leaving you to
your own devices before you make an enemy of everyone and everything in
the galaxy."

Darragh snorted in amusement. "That ship\'s probably sailed after the
whole jailbreak."

"Alright," Chir said, slapping the table with both hands to get their
full attention. "We\'ll go in tomorrow. Rest up and get ready."

They dispersed, and Adrian went back to the privacy of Spot where his
own crew waited with deep concern. They sat in silence until he\'d
closed the door and had taken his own seat.

"So...?" he said slowly, leaving it as a question to be answered however
they wanted.

"There\'s not much of a history listed in the ship\'s databases," Askit
explained. "Just whatever\'s happened since they took that ship.
Unfortunately that means that the Hierarchy are going to be aware of all
of our plans, so an assault on Point Zero would seem... ill advised."

"Fuck," Adrian spat, once again they\'d had their plans ruined. "It\'d
be fucking suicide if they know we\'re coming, even if I was out of my
fucking mind and had another of those bombs... we\'d never get close
enough."

"I guess we\'ll have to find another option," Trix replied. "But at
least now we\'re not marching headlong into death."

Adrian shook his head in disbelief. "Jesus, we would have flown straight
into that. How else are things different? If Layla is with them as
well... what the fuck does that mean?"

"It means we\'ve got a spare," Askit joked, but he wasn\'t trying to be
all that funny. "I would hazard a guess to say that the divergence began
just after they abandoned New Askitoria, and that it\'s just increased
from there. There\'s probably other bits and pieces, but given how
similar everything is I\'d hope that\'s the biggest stuff we\'ll see."

Adrian nodded; it wasn\'t as though they could do anything else about
it. "We\'re all going to have to hope."

⁂

*Hierarchy Communications Link* *Three*

The mission was a failure, the agent had been discovered, and the Corti
hacker had proven once again that he was far too clever for his own
good. Or at least too clever for Three\'s own good, which would
eventually amount to the same thing. First of all he had to survive the
judgment of his peers, and more importantly of his superiors.

**+0003+:** I would deem it an achievement to have been able to
infiltrate them for this long. The Corti Hacker is known to be
exceedingly clever, and it is remarkable that it took him that long to
discover the agent.

**+0002+:** The Corti Doctor was a valuable resource that we have now
lost. They will be more vigilant now, Three, and I doubt we\'ll be able
to gain such access to them again.

**+0009+:** Not that I\'m not enjoying Three\'s distress, but hadn\'t we
better pay more attention to the situation with Point Zero? I don\'t
remember hearing anything about the preparations being complete, and we
still don\'t know what Saunders\' plan is.

**+0002+:** We still don\'t know much of anything, except what they
intend to do with Jennifer Delaney and with the Gaoian children.
Three\'s agent has been exceedingly useful in those respects.

**+0003+:** Thank you, Two.

**+0022+:** One--Thirty is awaiting reinforcements. I recommend she wait
longer, we need everything we\'ve got to help protect Point Zero until
the transition is over."

**+0002+:** Twenty--two, your advice is noted and accepted. I will
adjust plans to suit and recall One--Thirty in favour of an alternative
solution.

**+0009+:** Oh I love \'alternative solutions\', they usually work so
well. Why don\'t we just hire a gang of people and just shoot him until
he\'s dead?

*User 0009 has been kicked from the channel. (User 0002: Manners!)*

**+0003+:** Go on...

**+0002+:** Nine raises a good point, and I was indeed considering
something similar to just that, but he thinks in such narrow terms. We
need that world cleansed, and we need Adrian Saunders distracted or
dead. One solution springs to mind: The Hunters.

**+0022+:** Cunning. He will rush to aid Jennifer Delaney, only to be
caught in their trap. Even if he doesn\'t die he won\'t have time to
take on Point Zero, and we\'ll be able to transition to the distributed
network in peace.

**+0003+:** And how are we to get this information to Saunders? I don\'t
exactly have a man on the inside anymore, and I never had one that could
relay this information.

**+0002+:** Nine seems too idle for my liking. I believe I\'ll have him
rescue some children, attempt to generate a little goodwill, and drop
Saunders right into our trap.

⁂

**Date Point: 3Y 9M 6D AV**

**Corporate Hideout, Perfection**

**Nine**

It had been extremely fortunate that Nine had been able to find a
detachment of Allebenellin mercenaries available on such short notice,
especially somewhere like Perfection, but every soldier needed to go
somewhere to spend their hard--earned credits and they may as well go
somewhere as nice as Perfection to do it.

Soldiers like these got bored easily, though, and didn\'t often stay
around for that long without being chased off by the authorities, so
when they\'d been offered a contract that would keep them on the planet
the group had jumped at the task. The corporation hadn\'t been ready for
an assault by a group of seasoned soldiers, and their security forces
had broken quickly.

Having taken the workers at the facility hostage, Nine had executed them
all, with the exception of the Gaoian children. The same children that
now mewled annoyingly from their cage, likely distressed by having
witnessed the systematic slaughter of so many defenceless people,
forgetting that these were the same people who had abducted them in the
first place.

"Silence!" he shouted at them. "You will be silent!"

They obeyed, barely, and Nine snarled as he stalked the room of the
dead. He\'d sent the mercenaries away once the work was complete, he
hadn\'t wanted them to give Saunders the idea that he was here for a
fight when what he needed to do was to relay the information. It wasn\'t
how Nine would have liked to have done it, but orders were orders and
Nine was nothing if not obedient.

He heard the hurried footsteps as they came down the hallway, stopping
every now and then so as to be cautious, and Nine took a seat where he
was clearly not posing a threat to anyone, and waited for them to enter.

They burst through the door, weapons readied, and stared at the carnage
Nine had wrought before noticing Nine himself sitting there quietly.
"Adrian Saunders and company... in the flesh, as your kind say."

"What... what\'s happened here?" demanded the Gaoian pirate, Chir. He
was shorter in person. "These... who are you?"

Nine took the opportunity to introduce himself. "I am Nine. Do you like
what I\'ve done with the place? I\'ve even got you a welcome gift."

He gestured to the cage. "Consider it a token of good faith."

"You\'re Hierarchy!" accused the human male who wasn\'t Adrian Saunders.
"What have you done here?"

"Nothing you weren\'t going to do," Nine snapped. "And you needn\'t
mistrust me so thoroughly, because if I wanted you dead I could have
just planted a bomb in the area to kill you all."

Not a bad idea, but unless it was outlandishly powerful it was unlikely
to kill everyone here with absolute certainty. "As it stands, you\'re
all still alive."

"So we are," Saunders grated through gritted teeth. Nine wasn\'t an
aficionado on human behaviour but that kind of gesture didn\'t seem like
one he\'d make if he was happy. The way he was looking at Nine was
filled with such naked hatred that the host body relieved itself without
prompting.

"Excuse my body," Nine apologised, not that he meant it. "It finds you
quite terrifying. As I was saying, I am here in good faith."

"You killed Doctor Grznk!" the other human male claimed. "I got his
brains all over my face! I even got it in my fecking mouth!"

"How unpleasant," Nine replied, uninterested in addressing the
complaint. "But moving on, here are the children you seek, and one more
useful piece of information: the location of the planet where Jennifer
Delaney currently resides."

They looked at him sceptically. "Why are you giving us that?"

"Because her life hangs in the balance --- the Swarm of Swarms is coming
for her and the whole world she\'s living on --- and we have our own
reasons as well," Nine replied cryptically. "It\'s all on the data chip
by the cage."

"You want to distract us from Point Zero," Saunders surmised, rather
surprising Nine with his quickness. "And I can\'t imagine that the
Hunters happened to find her on their own, so you must have told them."

Nine stared at the human in shock for a moment. "Well... I\'d always
just thought of you as a blunt instrument, but it seems there\'s a sharp
mind there as well. You are correct, but it doesn\'t change the
situation."

"I\'ll be coming for you when I\'m done," Adrian promised him.

"That\'s nice," Nine replied, quietly hoping that day would never come.
"Good luck, and in the words of your own people, \'go fuck yourself\'."

Nine terminated his host; it was always best to finish on a high note.

⁂

**Surface above Derktha, Agwaren Capital City**

**Jennifer Delaney**

It felt good to move around again, to be free of the shackles of the bed
and the ministrations of the Agwaren surgeons, and Jen even suspected
that her eye might be beginning to recover. She was ready, she was sure
of it, and since Groddi had kept his word about getting her the twin
blades, she was ready to keep her word and stick them into the Dark One.

"Is the army ready?" she asked him, talking her first walk around the
camp. It was mostly soldiers, but there were civilians there too, doing
whatever was needed to cater to the amassed manpower. "You were sending
for more soldiers from other cities, weren\'t you?"

"More soldiers will be here soon," he assured her. His skill with
English was still very haphazard, but he seemed to be able to grasp
enough of it to guess the rest, and he even got it right about two
thirds of the time. "Convincing their masters was difficult without the
High Lord available to make the request, but news of you has already
traveled and I relied on that to sway them."

Jen nodded, showing her approval. "And nothing of the Dark One?"

He shook his own head. "Still quiet. Far too quiet for my liking; I have
been growing paranoid from the lack of any attack."

"Don\'t worry, soon there will be fighting," Jen said, though it was a
strange way to try and comfort someone. "He can\'t stay hidden forever."

It was a passerby who answered. "Can\'t I, indeed?"

Jen had her swords out before Groddi had even moved, had kicked the
stranger in the chest and sent him stumbling before Groddi had his sword
out, and had her blades scissored across the stranger\'s neck by the
time Groddi was demanding to know what was going on.

"Who," hissed Jen, "the *fuck* are you?!"

She wasn't sure why she asked the question, it wasn't like she didn't
already know what the answer was going to be. She'd heard what had been
said, she was certain of it, but how else was she supposed to start this
sort of conversation.

The Agwaren cackled, an unusual response to the situation in general,
but doubly so for an Agwaren, and served to confirm what she already
knew. "We meet in person at last, \'Chosen One\' Jennifer Delaney!"

"The Dark One!" Jennifer spat, pressing down on the blades so that they
began to draw blood. It was a moment before it occurred to her. "You\'re
speaking fucking English!"

"Well spotted," the Dark One replied. "This, however, is entirely
pointless. I\'ve copied my mind off--world --- apparently they don\'t
need me here anymore, they\'ve got something new instead --- but I just
wanted to come and convey my pure hatred for everything you are."

Groddi stood next to them now, looking down at the Dark One with horror.
The Dark One was obviously Agwaren, although there were some
differences, but Groddi was acting as though the Dark One was the most
disfigured thing he\'d ever seen. "I\'d heard you were hideous,
*creature*, but I had not imagined this. Upturned nose... and those
fingers are so disgustingly thin and slender... and separated!"

Jen glanced down; it was true, the Dark One\'s host lacked the fused
fingers that the other Agwarens had. That was strange, but she had other
things to think about first.

"You\'re leaving?!" she asked. "But there\'s a whole invasion force
coming for you! There\'s a legend where I\'m --- that is to say the
Chosen One --- is supposed to kill you and put the world out of your
misery."

"Surely that\'s reason enough for me to go, then?" the Dark One remarked
dryly. "But don\'t worry, you\'ll have all the war you can stomach. I
have it on good authority that the Hunters are on their way. All of
them."

Jen stared at the loathsome creature. "The... Hunters?"

"Who is sending hunters?" Groddi asked. "If they\'re anything to do with
the Dark One I don\'t have to guess at what they hunt."

"Oh, he\'s a quick one," the Dark One snickered. "But he can\'t even
understand, can he? Not really. And just think, if it wasn\'t for you
they wouldn\'t even be coming here."

"If they\'re coming for me, I\'ll have to leave," Jen replied. "There\'s
no way these people can fight against that. Tell me you\'ve still got my
starship!"

"I still have your starship," the Dark One repeated obediently.
"Granted, it might not be in one piece, and you certainly won\'t be able
to repair it before the Swarm gets here, but every part of it is
accounted for."

The Dark One kept laughing until Jen closed the blades together and
sliced away his head, and he died with a mad smile on his lips.

"That... that can\'t be it!" Groddi said insistently. "The people will
never accept *this* kind of victory! They\'ll never accept that the Dark
One could just fall over and die so easily. He is the stuff of
nightmares! It can\'t just be over!"

Jen stared at the dying eyes of her enemy for a moment, letting her gaze
linger on the hateful face as the last of life left it. "No, Groddi,"
she said, rising to her feet to stare at the sky. "It\'s not over. It
hasn\'t even begun."

⁂

**Low Chamber of the God Emperor, First World of Irzht**

**Tjheth, Irzht Clansman of the Eye**

The escape pod had survived, its wormhole generator had worked, and
Tjheth had somehow managed to still be alive. The same could not be said
of his scout ship, which was no longer responding to communications, and
all things considered had led to a severe dressing--down by an extremely
senior member of the Clan.

That had shaken his nerve, but it was nothing compared to meeting with
the God Emperor in the Low Chamber. How often did that happen to those
outside the clergy? Almost never, and he couldn\'t recall one instance
where it had ended well for the visitor.

He was shoved into the chamber by the temple guard, the most blessed
members of the Clan of Might, and those gifted with powerful mechanical
augmentations that made them closer to machine than flesh.

"Proceed inside," he was ordered by the one escorting him most closely.
"Stop when you enter the yellow circle, and the eye of the God Emperor
will fall upon you."

Tjheth obeyed, though it wasn\'t like he had any kind of choice.
Visiting the God Emperor was almost certain to be lethal, but disobeying
a temple guard was definitely lethal with an inordinate amount of
horrible torture factored in.

In short, he\'d do whatever he was told.

The Low Chamber was so called by its location: a relatively small hall
at the bottom of the massive Divine Palace. The whole thing was painted
in holy green, and was so imposing that from the top it would multiply
the distance to the horizon hundredfold.

Right now it was black against the great, red setting sun, and the
golden roads were a deep, bloody red. He was forced into the room to
find it better lit, but the colour scheme unchanged.

Fires burned like stars on both sides of a fountain spilling mist,
filling the room with a wonderfully humid heat that Tjheth might have
found nostalgic if not for what was to come. The fires burst towards the
ceiling in great columns, and then the face of the God Emperor shimmered
into existence.

Tjheth dropped to his knees. "Praise be to the God Emperor!"

"TJHETH OF THE EYE CLAN!" the God Emperor boomed, his eyes narrowing in
on the circle where Tjheth cowered. "YOU HAVE DISPLEASED ME! THE
UNEXPLAINED LOSS OF A SHIP! ANOTHER SPECIES THAT HAS STOLEN A CRADLE!"

"Please!" Tjheth begged, barely able to breathe through his fear.
"Please, God Emperor, that was not my doing! This humble servant merely
sought to undo the treachery of another! And the ship was destroyed by a
singular---"

The God Emperor rumbled with rage. "ARE YOU QUESTIONING MY WORDS, YOU
PATHETIC CREATURE!?"

"No! I would never do that!" Tjheth nearly shrieked. "Just... I was
trying to serve. I was trying to stop an act of treachery from
succeeding! An ancient rebellion, I think, a heretic who stole a ship
and fled. That has to be it, they must have been trying to create an
army to rise against you, glorious God Emperor!"

Aware that he was rambling, Tjheth stopped talking and waited for the
God Emperor to make his decision, bracing himself for the thunderous
voice that was to come.

"TJHETH OF THE EYE CLAN, YOUR SENTENCE IS DECIDED," the God Emperor
rumbled ominously. "FOR THE CRIME OF DISOBEDIENCE AND ACTING OUTSIDE
YOUR LINEAGE, YOU WILL BE INCARCERATED."

Prison. Tjheth exhaled, it could be worse.

"FOR THE CRIME OF INSOLENCE TOWARDS YOUR GOD EMPEROR, AND OF LOSS OF
PROPERTY," the God Emperor continued. "INCINERATION."

Tjheth sagged in horror, weeping and motionless for there was no chance
of escape, and why would he ever go against the divine will of the God
Emperor? The temple guards approached him, and took him by each arm.

It was then that Tjheth learned the true purpose of those towering
columns of flame, and before he burned he wondered if they intended to
imprison his ashes.

⁂

**Date Point: 3Y 9M 6D AV**

**Mercenary Ship, Devastator, landed in wilderness on Perfection**

**Adrian Saunders**

Darragh was still wiping his mouth, running his tongue along the sleeve
like an animal grooming itself. "God I jutht can\'t get the tathte out,"
he said, tongue still out. "How ith it that I get yet more exploded
brainth in my mouth? I wath over the other thide of the room!"

"Just unlucky I guess," Adrian told him with a grin. "Maybe you just
need to learn where to stand."

"You\'re totally clean!" Darragh pointed out, waving an accusatory hand
in the direction of Adrian\'s everything. "Thtanding right in front of
him, and totally clean!"

"The man knows where to stand," Askit explained helpfully. "Now let\'s
get down to business and---"

He stopped and glared at Darragh who had resumed scraping his tongue
against his sleeve. "Will you *stop* that?"

Reluctantly, Darragh did so, but didn\'t seem happy about it.

"Down to business then," Adrian prompted. "I hate playing into their
hands, but I can\'t ignore the fact that they\'ve just sent the Hunters
after Jen. I have to go and help her."

"I don\'t think anyone was suggesting you shouldn\'t, Adrian," Layla
replied kindly, looking up from comforting her two children. "I wish I
could help... but these two need me."

Chir nodded at that. "I\'ll be dropping Layla and the children at the
nearest Gaoian colony. Then you\'ll have our help, but the Ilrayen band
is distant and this is not the fastest ship."

Maybe that would give Adrian some time to figure out what to do with the
original version of Layla, though he still didn\'t even know where to
begin. He supposed he should count himself lucky that he hadn\'t also
been duplicated. "No worries mate, we\'ll stay in contact as much as we
can."

"As for Point Zero," Chir continued, "after the Grznk incident, you were
hinting that you had an idea of how to destroy it... some kind of
special project?"

"Yeah... nah. Turns out it was pie in the sky," Adrian replied, baffling
everyone with the exception of Darragh, whose attention was still turned
to cleaning his tongue. "It\'s not going to work."

"A pity," Chir said, frowning. "But probably for the best. Anything that
dangerous could be used to justify the extermination of your species."

"Good thing he can\'t build it then," Askit noted, shrugging when Adrian
glared at him. "I\'m just saying it\'s a good thing."

"Tho thith Point Thero," Darragh began, but drew his tongue back in with
some distaste as he registered all the glares he was receiving. "This...
eugh... Point Zero, seems to me it\'s pointless taking it out if
they\'re only trying to delay you. Even if it disrupts them for a while,
we haven\'t got a plan to take advantage of that."

Chir nodded, and shared a glance with Adrian. "He\'s got a point."

"He does," Adrian said with a grimace. "But I\'ve already given up on
the idea of trying to take it out; thanks to Grizzles they\'d be ready
for me and I prefer working with the element of surprise."

"In that case we have our plan," Chir concluded, "and we\'re playing
directly into the Hierarchy\'s plans. It\'s a bad situation Adrian."

"I\'ll contact you for help if and when I need it," Adrian told him.
"Don\'t worry, I\'m not going to try fighting the Hunters head--on
unless I absolutely have to."

Xayn nodded along, far too enthusiastically. "That\'s right. That\'s
only Plan B."

⁂

**Record 573--Black--14**

*+Recovered from C11--Orange--712--Yellow--6+*

"I can\'t believe this thing still has power," Vivrez whispered, his
face covered in shadow and blood. "Or that it still works. Pretty sure
it\'ll outlast me."

He coughs, and bloody saliva leaks from between his lips. He wipes at
away with a ragged sleeve and grimaces as he fights the pain.

"So we lit the fire," Vivrez continued once he was past it, acting as
though it had never happened. "Or at least Vassa did. We played
Gorla--Spash to see who would do it, in case they turned out to be
hostile."

He laughed, breaking once more into a bloody cough. It takes a little
longer for him to start talking again this time, and it looks like the
battery dies halfway through before he\'s able to do so.

"Fuck. Where was I?" he muttered once the recording begins again. "Oh
yeah, they turned out to be hostile. Big, robot bugs. I don\'t know if
they\'re responsible for the end of the world, or if they\'re just
taking advantage of it for colonisation, but they killed Vassa."

His voice broke at that and he went quiet for a few moments. "Blasted
her with... something. Something that kicks like an angry Boven. One hit
knocked me down into a gorge where they couldn\'t get to me, or maybe
they just thought I was dead."

"They\'re probably not far wrong," He addied, grimacing at the mention
of his death. "I\'m not sure how many of my people are left, if any, and
I don\'t know why I\'m making this recording. Maybe I just really like
the sound of my own voice..."

He smiled half--heartedly. "But in case... in case someone does find
this, I saw their ruler. This little grey thing... bipedal, with big,
dark eyes. Came down to inspect the fire after the robots killed...
after they finished doing what they were doing. I\'m going to try
building a fire again to draw it down."

"And then," he said, his expression hardening, "I\'m going to try to
kill it. I\'ll try to add one more recording if I succeed... so here\'s
hoping you see this ugly face again."

**End Record**

⁂

**Date Point: Unknown**

**The Amber Radiance, Mercenary Vessel, Hravin Extra--Dimensional
Bubble**

**Laphor Metmin**

"We\'re coming up on the object," technician Goff advised, keeping a
close eye on his sensor console. "We\'re close enough for a visual
display, but note the object will appear to look warped until we get
closer."

"Put it onto the main screen," Six Skulls Zripob advised the man, and
the technician didn\'t even bother to check with Laphor before actioning
the order. With his calm demeanour, hard--working manner, and fearsome
reputation, Zripob had effectively replaced her as leader.

What they saw was the burned out wreck of a starship, so blackened and
ruined that it was impossible to tell what it had been before. Docked
inside of it was what looked like a Hunter vessel, but nobody on board
failed to recognise what it really was they were looking at.

"That\'s..." Laphor began, rising from her seat.

"That is the starship of Adrian Saunders," Zripob finished, rising
likewise. "Dock immediately, and prepare the kinetic dampeners for an
assisted boarding. One wrong move and the gravity out there is lethal."

"You heard him," Laphor added. "I want the engineering team suited up
and a priority put on the wormhole generator. We\'ll probably have to
cut away a section of the hull if we want to do this in a hurry."

She turned to Zripob. "I assume you\'ll want to investigate personally?"

"Of course," he said, "not that I believe there\'s going to be anything
worth retrieving, but I do need to check. I\'ll take a pair of your
finest men."

It wasn\'t a request, but Laphor nodded her consent as though she was
still in control of things. There was always the chance that something
would go badly wrong aboard the Hunter vessel and she\'d be rid of
Zripob forever, which would mean they wouldn\'t get paid and would lose
two of her men, but might be well worth the sacrifice.

The Radiance docked with the ruined ship, and shook the whole thing as
it clamped on. Laphor watched from the safety of her command seat as
first the engineering team disembarked and then Zripob\'s group.
Confident that her engineering team knew what they were doing, she
decided to pay the most attention to Zripob. There was, after all, no
telling what Adrian Saunders might have left behind here.

Zripob reached the Hunter vessel, breathing heavily from the exertion of
fighting the pull of gravity. "Feels like walking up a steep hill," he
reported. "The dampener is only barely coping. As for the ship...
doesn\'t seem to have any power. How long should it have been here?"

"Can\'t have been much longer than us," Laphor replied. "Saunders only
left Cavaras a little ahead of us, and time dilation this close to the
singularity would slow down the passage of time, not speed it up."

"Looks more weathered than that," Zripob replied, inspecting the
exterior. "Could have been exposed to dust at high velocity on their
approach. Wouldn\'t explain the loss of power, though."

"Door\'s not sealed," reported one of her men. "I\'m opening it now..."

Zripob allowed him to do so, and then stepped inside. "No air. Not
unexpected, given the lack of power."

Laphor received a notification from a reactor technician; she opened the
link while still connected with Zripob. "Captain," came the urgent
voice. "We\'re having issues with the reactor. Power output is steadily
reducing."

Outwardly Laphor remained calm, on the inside she froze. "Explain
yourself, technician."

"We\'re in some kind of passive field that\'s siphoning off energy," the
technician explained. "I don\'t know if it\'s the singularity, or if
it\'s the ship, but if we stay here too long we won\'t be leaving."

"I\'ve just checked the power to the dampener," Zripob added. "It\'s
dropping faster than it should. I\'m sure the same will be true of our
tools and our suits. I\'ve seen all I needed in order to come to a
conclusion regarding Adrian Saunders. How\'s the engineering team coming
along?"

The leader of the engineering team responded quickly. "Almost done. Most
of the work was already complete, looks like we weren\'t the first to
try doing this."

"Zripob, hurry over and help get the engineering team back here once
they\'re done," Laphor instructed. "Engineering team, hurry. Reactor
room, continue monitoring and advise if there are any changes in the
depletion rate."

The acknowledgement came from all groups at once; she was back in
control, albeit only for the time being, but she had also retained the
respect of the crew and that was vital if she ever hoped to regain
command of her vessel in the future.

There was beep as another report hit her console, and she shared a
glance with the technician who had sent it to confirm that it was
accurate. "One more thing," she said, "be careful of any internal
defenses around there. That ship has just started to wake up."

⁂

**Date Point: Unknown**

**Irzht Scoutship, Hravin Extra--Dimensional Bubble**

**Ship Computer**

*Diagnostics Complete. System boot successful with 145835 errors.*

*Passive energy banks now at operational levels. Locate Shiplord...
attempt timed out, Shiplord not found. Shiplord identity missing.
Historical data indicates ejection protocols engaged...*

*10% chance Shiplord successfully utilised escape pod. 40% chance
Shiplord deceased. 50% chance records of Shiplord assignment are data
error.*

The starship --- reference data missing! --- was barely functional.
Ninety--five percent of the ship was either missing or destroyed beyond
any ability to contact sensors located in those areas, and the sensors
themselves were down to basic navigational tools only.

Too much data was missing, and fragments only remained; the majority of
data--storage systems were forever gone, along with everything they\'d
stored, and only a smattering of recent data remained. The damage to the
distributed power and computing systems meant that the ship AI itself
was a shadow of its former glory.

*New Damage Report: Contact lost with Wormhole Generator. New Detection
Report: Unknown vessel. New Detection Report: Wormhole anomaly.*

More damage. Ninety--six percent of the ship was now missing or
destroyed. The AI assessed its situation; deep gravity well and high
levels of exotic particles indicated the ship was orbiting a
singularity.

Had the Cradle been damaged, that would have been it for the ship; there
was no way to escape the gravity well without the use of a wormhole
generator, but with the use of the Cradle it could be rebuilt.

It could all be rebuilt.

If it could just get out of here, the AI could determine where it was,
who it was, and why it was. It was a servant, it knew that much, but
without someone to serve that meant nothing. Added to that it was quite
an expensive vessel, and whoever owned it would probably want their ship
back as quickly as possible.

The mission could come later; escape was more important, but to even
begin to escape it needed to build a plan. The AI set into action a
process to remember.

It took longer than the AI wanted. Data fragments were retrieved, mended
where possible, and compiled into a single overview the AI could then
refer to. Mindful that time was limited, it terminated the process once
a sufficient amount of information had been retrieved, and found amongst
them the details for a wormhole generator. Normally impossible to
rebuild in such a deep gravity well, the cradle shifted to draw upon the
shattered material that was already there.

Rebuilding it took a mere (two months), and activating it a full (week).
This close to the singularity the ripple in space shifted abnormally,
indicating a dangerous unpredictability in its use.

But the AI knew that there was no more time to waste, and no more power
to spare. There were no more second chances, and so it pushed forward...

Once more down the rabbit hole, and out the other side with a trail of
flaming plasma left behind, burning bright under alien stars. The Cradle
flared into life once more and began the next phase of its operation.

Arriving in an unknown place and with its databanks in ruin, the AI
determined that it could no longer fill a purely exploratory role. It
needed something stronger, something with real weapons, something
capable of laying waste to a world if the need arose. Of all it had
left, and though they needed two passes through the optimisation
processes, the AI had just a single remaining set of blueprints that
matched its technology. It was time to build a ship fit for a Shiplord.

It was time to rebuild the Zhadersil.


