---
title: That Old Plan
---

# That Old Plan

\

\

::: chapter
**Aratas, Celzi Heavy Cruiser**

The feelings of depression and anxiety returned like the ocean reclaimed
the shore, shifting her mood so suddenly and so violently that Jen
couldn\'t help but notice how unnatural the change was. What had earlier
crept upon her with dangerous subtlety had returned all at once,
sweeping her along with emotions she now knew as alien.

That was the worst part of foreign emotions; you got all of the fun of
experiencing them, all of the effects on your thoughts and decisions,
and absolutely none of the sense.

The wall was there to support her, however, and Jen stopped to lean
heavily on it as the realisations shook her.

"Askit," she gasped, her fingers wrapping tight around the internal
bulkhead, "what\'s wrong with me?!"

The little Corti studied her, his inky black eyes scanning over her.
"I\'m no doctor, but I\'d say you\'re sick."

"That\'s not exactly helpful," she replied, but he *was* right that she
shouldn\'t expect a medical diagnosis from a computer hacker. But it was
also true that there wasn\'t anyone on board that she could *trust* to
give her an accurate diagnosis. Askit, for his part, did not seem to be
suffering anything apart from his usual case of cynicism, although from
what she had seen that was more or less a racial attribute.

"Jen," he said warily, "if you\'re not feeling up to this, you do not
*have* to do it."

She wasn\'t sure if she had a choice in that; if Adrian was suffering
from the same effects there was no telling what he might do. From what
Askit told her he was already shooting at, or around, people, and actual
deaths were only a matter of time.

That left the question of what had happened to them. Could it have been
some kind of weapon intended to send them crazy, and if so who would
have done it? It couldn\'t have been the robo--spider, if that was what
it was, since she hadn\'t even *seen* it and yet she was still suffering
from these effects.

She supposed it might have been the Celzi, some sort of trick intended
to set the two humans against each other! Fleet Master Big Bird would be
sitting somewhere, laughing at them as they turned on each other,
ridding his vessel of the human scourge.

She looked up and down the corridor to ensure they were alone, then
conspiratorially leaned in towards the Corti. "Askit," she whispered
urgently, "I think the Fleet Master is trying to kill us, so I do!"

"Are you alright, Jen?" the little Corti asked, taking a step back. He
looked worried, and he didn\'t look as though he believed her. Could it
be that he was in on it? She had wondered about him being the traitor on
the space station, and if he had betrayed them once then why not again?
He was supposedly some sort of hardened criminal, after all!

She swallowed back her horror at the realisation. It all made so much
sense! "You!" she accused as she backed away from him, moving in the
direction that Adrian had gone. "You can\'t be trusted! None of you can
be trusted!"

"Jen--" he began.

"No!" she interrupted, close to shouting. "No more lies! I have to tell
him... I have to!"

He didn\'t try to move again, but looked at her with incomprehension and
fear. Good, he was right to fear her! They all should fear the humans!
There was no hiding their plans with such clever humans aboard, and if
they knew what would be good for them they\'d beg for forgiveness, so
they would!

"You\'ll be sorry!" she shouted as she turned and began to run away. "Do
you hear me? You\'ll all be sorry!"

⁂

There wasn\'t any doubt in Askit\'s mind that humans were strange, and
that when using the word strange to describe them the word took on a new
level of meaning. What he had witnessed here -- and he had yet to figure
out exactly what it *was* that he had witnessed here -- had been
completely bizarre and more than slightly terrifying.

Assessing the situation, he had determined that it was \'not good\'. It
had in fact achieved a level of \'not good\' that Askit had previously
attributed to being ejected from a space station into low orbit of an
enemy planet. He had *hoped* to get Jen\'s help with Adrian, who was
currently barricading himself in an uninteresting storage room and, from
the reports feeding through the ship communication system he was hacked
into, the crazed human was randomly firing an anti--tank gun and
shouting an incoherent torrent of abuse and accusations.

Knowing that Adrian was currently all kinds of crazy, Askit had made the
unfortunate assumption that Jen\'s state was his doing. Askit had
*imagined* she\'d want to help bring Adrian under control, to get him to
stand down, or at the very least to stop scaring the complete shit out
of everyone.

That now seemed to have been a critical error of significant magnitude.

"Hrbrd," he said, opening a communicator link back to the Councillor
hiding away in the room they shared. A room that had proven to be a
point of contention between two Corti who were not accustomed to sharing
anything. "Hrbrd, I\'m afraid I\'ve made a mistake."

"I show Jen moving towards Adrian\'s position," Hrbrd replied. He was
keeping track of the situation from the more expansive console in their
room. "You are *not* with her."

"I\'ve just seen a human female transform from piqued to raving mad
person," Askit replied. "I had thought that keeping my distance was the
better course of action."

"Our only other human has also gone crazy?" Hrbrd asked, sounding angry.
"Any sign of what might be causing this?"

"None," Askit replied bluntly. It was a frustrating admission, but as
far as Askit could determine the source of the problem was likely to be
either the Dominion or the Hierarchy, and despite the presence of one of
a Hierarchy machine aboard it didn\'t seem as though that would be a
delivery system. For that matter there wasn\'t even a delivery system he
could identify.

"Not many people benefit from a pair of psychotic humans running around
unrestrained on a Celzi vessel," Hrbrd observed, apparently thinking
along the same lines. "Hierarchy or the Dominion are the most likely,
but our next course of action is now the same regardless of who is
responsible."

"They need to be contained," Askit replied, guessing at what was coming
next. He wasn\'t pleased by the idea, but few items of necessity were
pleasant. "That will be difficult, they are extremely unstable."

"Do you think that they will subdue each other?" Hrbrd asked, not
sounding particularly hopeful.

Askit was forced to share his pessimism. "I doubt we\'re that
fortunate."

"Then we\'ll need to elevate our response," Hrbrd replied. "If they
start to kill everyone on board, you and I will be up to our eyeballs in
shit."

That was a human expression, Askit observed. Their sayings, as
nonsensical as they were, had a tendency to stick, and Askit himself had
adopted many into his own speech. It was not something he would have
expected of a Councillor, but he supposed that Hrbrd no longer needed to
put on airs of importance.

"Then I have a plan," Askit told him, already unhappy with it. It was a
very \'Adrian\' plan, and that was the problem. "I\'ll need you to get
everyone out of the area."

"What are you intending?" Hrbrd asked, rightfully concerned. "The Fleet
Master won\'t budge without a reason."

"The same kind of trick we used on the space station that used to orbit
Cavaras," Askit replied. "I\'m going to vent their atmosphere."

⁂

There was absolutely no way for Adrian to tell how long he\'d been
waiting in his little sanctuary; he had no watch, no data pad, and no
reference, and the poison that still acted on him had robbed him of his
sense of time as well.

It was not a big room; just a small storage area from what he could tell
through his blurry vision and the heavy fugue that fogged his mind. He
crouched in it like an animal poised to strike, his body operating on
the shreds of instinct and training that stood up against the onslaught
of shifting emotional extremes. He only *knew* that he was dangerous,
and that he needed everyone to keep their distance until he had figured
out what to do next.

He had even told them as much, although his precise words may have been
to endlessly repeat a command that they all just fuck off. This had not
proven as successful as he had hoped, and he had been forced to
supplement this order with random bursts of suppressive gunfire.

The room itself was longer than it was wide, and he had positioned
himself at the end of it, partly so that nothing could get behind him,
but mostly because his sense of balance was all over the fucking shop,
and he needed a nearby wall to keep himself upright. In the centre of
the room lay the twisted remains of his fusion blade, nothing but broken
metal after his bout with a robo--spider and two doors. He hadn\'t been
in much of a state to use the thing properly, but the pile of cooling
slag that included both robo--spider and door were evidence enough that
it had hardly mattered.

Things were getting blurry, getting dark as he sat there waiting, so
once again he employed his successful tactic of making a lot of noise
and shooting his gun. "RAAARGH!" he screamed meaninglessly as he shot
the already ruined shelving that lined both sides of the room. It seemed
to work, and so he rested his voice once it had grown hoarse and started
to wait again; he knew that it was very important that he keep everyone
out of the room, since he might be dangerous.

There had been voices, a long time ago, who had been shouting something
at him. He hadn\'t been sure of what they\'d been shouting, or if they
were shouting *anything* to be understood. He wasn\'t entirely sure
they\'d been shouting at *him*, but had seemed likely as they\'d
politely waited for him to scream a response each time.

But now they were gone, and that was good, because this room was
dangerous with him in it and so they shouldn\'t be there.

A rush of shadow and sudden movement caught his eye, flashing through
the entrance in a blur too fast for him to see. He peeled off a pair of
shots with his usual accuracy, destroying another section of shelving in
the process.

That would show it!

"What the fuck are you doing, you Australian lunatic!?" the blurry shape
shouted out. It did such an excellent imitation of Jen that he began to
giggle, but that was before he realised that giggling must be what it
was counting on!

How dare it pretend to be her! Being her was *her* job, and as far as
Adrian was concerned she was very good at it! The position of Jen was
already filled, and he certainly didn\'t need some alien trying to get
the job!

He rose in a surge of furious anger, swaying as the rectangular room
decided to become a spiral. He began shooting randomly, assuming that
one of the shots must hit the imposter, and shouted at the top of his
lungs. "I WON\'T LET YOU BE HER!"

The blur was too fast! Way too fast to be a natural thing, and within
moments -- or at least certainly within thirty shots -- something hard
had hit him in the side of the head. Some kind of secret Hierarchy
weapon no doubt...

It hit him again, and the blinding flash of pain behind his eyes was
soon followed by dark oblivion.

⁂

The sprawling mass of Adrian had mostly slumped to the floor, although
part of him was still upright against the back wall of the room. Jen
punched him in the face a third time for good measure, fully
appreciating the secondary thud of the back of his head striking the
bulkhead.

She did not consider herself to be a vindictive woman -- she was
religious, after all -- but she did wish to properly convey how little
she appreciated being shot at. One of the wildly aimed blasts had
actually winged her, and while her arm did not actually seem to be
broken, it did regularly throb with powerful spikes of pain. Putting her
hand onto it did not seem to help very much, and quite frankly she felt
like she could use a barrel of whiskey to get her through today.

"Bastard," she slurred, inches away from the unconscious man\'s bruising
face. "You\'re lucky I dinnae stab you! Do you hear me, Adrian?"

He didn\'t answer, which was a wee bit rude of him! She hit him again
before remembering that unconscious people were often noted by their
poor conversational manner. Then she rubbed her head violently, spilling
her red hair into a wild mess, trying to get her head straight.

"What... what have those bastards done to us, Adrian?" she wondered
aloud. It felt like a cloud was forcing its way into her mind, sweeping
aside her sense of reason along with any further resistance to the
strange emotions that plagued her.

Adrian continued to lay there, and she decided that perhaps he had the
right idea after all. Within moments she had sunk to the floor and
cuddled up to his motionless body. It was less comfortable on the floor
than standing, but it stopped the room from trying to turn itself upside
down or inside--out. Putting her head against his chest also proved to
be helpful, as the calm rhythm of his heartbeat soothed the tumult of
emotions.

Being pressed against his bare flesh did return a curious mixture of
exhaustion and animal arousal, however, and now that they were finally
alone... he was still unconscious.

Damn.

She didn\'t have the energy to be angry anymore, or even particularly
frustrated, and staying where she was seemed to be the most agreeable
outcome. Here she could smell him, here she could kiss him gently, and
here she could rake his bared skin with her fingernails for no other
reason than a sudden urge to do so.

He was too unconscious to resist!

She giggled to herself, but stopped as she became aware of a faint
rushing of air. It sounded like the gentle winds of home, blowing
through the streets on a spring day and carrying with it the scent of
new life. So fresh that it was making her lightheaded just thinking
about it.

This delusion was quickly ended with the addition of a red light that
bathed the room in its crimson glow.

That was the atmosphere alert, she recalled groggily. It activated to
show when the atmosphere had reached dangerous levels.

The surge of adrenaline woke her fully, and she stared at the light in
slow--dawning horror. "That\'s the atmosphere alert!" she exclaimed in
shock. "The atmosphere... Oh god!"

She looked down at Adrian. "Oh shite!"

The sound was coming from the vents that normally *cycled* the air. They
were venting the air on *purpose*, now that their plans with the poison
had clearly failed. No doubt they felt they couldn\'t risk Jen and
Adrian coming after them, but as far as Jen was concerned they were
about to be in for a rude shock.

Staying in the room was not an option; Jen knew that she had to get out
of there, but she didn\'t know how to do the same for Adrian. He didn\'t
seem to respond to a firm shaking, and he was so big, so heavy... so
big! There was no way a small woman like here could ever hope to move
him, let alone escape with him.

A choice had to be made, so she made it.

"I\'m sorry," she said as she knelt down and kissed him. She stroked his
face sadly, her fingers tracing its many lines. "I don\'t know if I
loved you, or if I would have loved you," she admitted to the
unconscious man, "but I\'m just... I wish we\'d had the chance to find
out."

One last kiss, and she left him there. He would never feel the slow
onset of death by suffocation, but she still needed to live! She ran,
looking for places to hide or places to escape from the ever thinning
air, and it wasn\'t long before her lungs were burning from the effort
of struggling for air that simply wasn\'t there.

There wasn\'t a doubt in her mind that she was going to die if she
stayed on the ship, that they were trying to kill her as they were
killing Adrian, but she was smarter than they knew, and more experienced
as well. She wasn\'t new to Celzi cruisers -- the Hodgepodge was dated
but it still fit the design -- and Jen knew exactly where she could find
what she wanted.

Not a section on each vessel was missing one, a small life pod capable
of holding several beings in stasis if they needed it to, prepared with
an FTL drive pre--charged for a single push and kinetics ready for a
landing. All they needed was a set of coordinates, and the automated
systems would do the rest.

She *had* a set of coordinates. The only set of coordinates she\'d ever
bothered to memorise in her entire time amongst the stars. That would
let her escape, and would get her somewhere where she could plot enough
vengeance to serve Adrian as well as herself.

The life pod she found was helpfully marked with such clear indications
that even in her oxygen deprived state she could find one. The door
swung open easily against her desperate strength, and sealed after her
as she stumbled inside. The cabin began to fill with much needed air,
but she didn\'t have time to enjoy it -- there couldn\'t be long before
they realised their oversight and put an end to her escape attempt.

Within moments she\'d keyed in the numbers on the navigation console,
and the life pod was humming with power as it readied for launch.

It took three heartbeats, and then all at once it was gone.
:::
