---
title: Prisoners
---

# Prisoners

\

\

::: chapter
**Perfection, Class 3 Planet**\
**Darragh Houston**

"I don\'t see what\'s so perfect about it, is all," Darragh noted as
they walked through the long, winding streets towards their destination.
The sun was warm and soft, the wind gentle and refreshing, and every
building covered by some form of vegetation that gave the whole place a
very \'at--one--with--nature\' feel. It all seemed very... forced.

It didn\'t look as though Keffa agreed with him, and she was staring at
him as though he was a complete idiot. "It\'s a Class Three planet!
Class *Three*! If you were stranded on a Class Three planet you\'d have
to sew your mouth shut to stop all the food trying to jump in and keep
you alive! That\'s about as close to perfection as you\'re going to get.
That\'s where they got the name!"

Darragh looked around at all of the total perfection and shrugged.
"First of all, let me just say that the prospect of any kind of animal
trying to force feed itself to me is just highly disturbing. Second of
all, I guess I\'m just not a fan."

"Not a fan of everything being perfect... what could you possibly
improve that would suit you better?" Keffa demanded, completely
mystefied and far more annoyed about his opinions on this sort of thing
than usual. Maybe it was the stress of meeting her old associate, or
maybe she had some other kind of unfortunate connection to this place,
but Darragh didn\'t care either way -- the simple fact that she was
taking the bait made it all entirely worth it.

He feigned considered thought for a short time. "Well," he finally said,
"for starters there's the air..."

She threw her arms up in exasperation. "You mean the air that couldn't
be any cleaner? The air that never blows harder than a stiff breeze?
That air is what you've got a problem with?"

He shrugged. "Yeah. Too clean, too gentle. A good windstorm makes you
feel alive."

"A 'good windstorm' would probably be lethal to ninety--percent of life
native to this planet," she said. "I doubt that'd be an improvement,
even to you!"

"Ah, I don't know," he said, sliding his hands into his pockets. "That'd
be survival of the fittest, unless I'm mistaken. Might even do the place
good to have a bit of a downpour."

Keffa stared at him, her mouth opening and closing as words died on her
lips before the light of understanding finally showed in her eyes. "You
sonovabitch, you're pulling my leg, aren't you?"

He held it together only long enough to see Keffa's look of total
self--disgust, and then completely failed to refrain from laughing. She
didn't look impressed, with him or with herself, but that only served to
increase his own amusement.

With a quiet ruff, Chir reminded them that he was there. "We are nearly
there. It would be good if you could remain *professional* when we meet
with this 'Vakno'. If half of what Keffa tells us is true, this Corti
female has more connections than we've ever had, and has the power to
really ruin our day. I\'d like to avoid pissing her off."

"Not a problem Chir," Keffa said, giving Darragh a pointed look. "One
hundred percent *professional* behaviour."

"Oh yeah," Darragh agreed. "One hundred percent."

"Very reassuring," Chir said dryly. It didn't sound as if he believed
them but as though he remained completely resigned to the inevitable
fuck--up that was to come.

Their destination was not all that far from the spaceport where they had
landed, and although public transportation had taken most of the rest of
the way they had also been forced to make the rest of the way on foot
once they started getting into the really expensive neighborhoods. Here
grew the most luxurious gardens, spilling from the most extravagant
buildings, and the few businesses that traded here were the variety that
could afford to be selective in their clientele.

Most of them advertised their presence with some signage, or at the very
least some of their wares made visible in the large windows, but there
was one place that did not. One place with no windows, that would go
unnoticed by any who did not look, and it was that place that was their
destination.

This unassuming structure was the business house of Vakno, the name of a
Corti that Keffa apparently knew well enough to have a history with,
although possibly not a very cordial one.

They stood before the entrance, outwardly an unimpressive white and gold
affair of light construction that Keffa assured them concealed a heavy
security door, and waited for some kind of response.

"Do we need to knock or something?" Darragh asked, feeling increasingly
uncomfortable at walking around this sort of neighborhood.

"She knows we\'re here," Keffa replied. "You can\'t see the cameras, but
they\'re there. She\'s probably hoping we\'ll give up and go away, or
she\'s annoyed we\'ve turned up without invitation, or she\'s still
pissed off that I broke off our business arrangement and left her
holding the bag."

"You did something unprofessional?" Darragh mocked, raising an eyebrow
too high. "No! I don\'t believe it!"

She glared at him. "Shut it."

"Perhaps you could *both* 'shut it'?" snapped a disembodied voice.
Female, and clinically Corti. "Inside. Now."

The door audibly unlocked, a heavy thunk that proved true Keffa\'s
assertion regarding its sturdiness. Darragh gave it an experimental
push, and found that he had to lend it significantly more effort than
any other door he'd seen since leaving Earth. By Earth standards it was
the kind of door you used to keep out everything short of a charging
rhino, out here it was probably on par with most heavy security vaults.

He inspected it more thoroughly once they were inside, finding the back
of it to be polished steel about an eighth of an inch thick. If that was
anything to go by, the front of it, hidden beneath the fa√ßade, would be
exactly the same. He looked up at Keffa with a face full of suspicion.
"She didn't by any chance get this door because of what you did?"

She rolled her eyes. "Vakno's had dealings with humans before *me*."

That wasn't actually an answer, but Darragh chose to let it slide. He
didn't doubt that Vakno might choose to *shoot* Keffa, but it seemed
less likely that she'd have installed that kind of protection unless
Keffa was a lot more dangerous than she'd let on.

"Down this way," Keffa said as she made for the stairs, the only notable
feature in the inside of the building. Apart from the stairs and the
door it was just one big, empty and grey room.

Darragh rolled his eyes this time, making sure she caught the
expression. "How fortunate we've got you here to guide us. We'd have
been completely lost, otherwise."

Chir sighed with volume, and that was enough of an expression of
displeasure that they knew it was time to stop their bickering. Darragh
whispered an apology and followed Keffa down the stairs, leaving Chir to
take up the rear.

What waited below was nothing like what had been above. The room was
heavy on closed cabinets, and more than one hummed quietly, indicating
electronics within. Another two hums joined them, the unmistakable sound
of very heavy weapons being charged, and as Darragh emerged from behind
Keffa he saw the source of that particular noise: a pair of
drone--mounted turrets that flanked a Corti female on either side, with
weapons pointed straight at them.

Keffa raised her hands in the universal sign of
'please--don't--shoot--me', and Darragh was quick to follow suit. She
didn't look too scared, however, and he assumed that perhaps this was
simply all part of doing business with the Corti female.

Well, he hoped it was, because otherwise this might end up getting
rather messy.

Vakno herself was seated in an extremely luxurious 'power--chair', the
sort of thing that the egotists on Earth would have used to make a
statement about who was in charge. On their side of the desk there were
much more standard chairs, although she wasn't exactly offering them the
opportunity to sit down.

Instead she steepled her fingers, leant forward and scrutinised her
former associate over them. She did not seem to be particularly
impressed. "You've disappointed me, Kefani," she said, "I didn't think
I'd ever see you again, and yet here you are, darkening my door with..."
-- she waved vaguely at Darragh and Chir -- "...these in tow. Normally I
wouldn't have let you in, or you'd be dead by now, or both, but I find
myself curious as to what you think you can possibly achieve by pissing
me off further with whatever new business proposal you are preparing to
shit out?"

Darragh stared at the Corti, and then at Keffa, and wondered if he might
have placed slightly too much trust in Keffa's decision--making skills.
Chir must have been feeling the same way, because it was only then that
he worked his way past the two of them and stepped to the fore.

"We're not here on Keffa's behalf," he said. "She may have brought me
here, but the request and the business is mine. I am--"

"Chir," Vakno finished, looking at him with an expression that conveyed
staggering boredom. "I *know*. I wondered what kind of idiot would bring
a Gaoian warship into orbit around Perfection, and decided to look it
up. Imagine my surprise to discover that it was the legendary pirate
lord who managed to lose control of *two* pirate bases?"

Chir frowned, marginally taken aback by the directness of the rebuke,
but holding her gaze. "Those were both... extenuating circumstances."

Vakno smiled tightly; there was no humour there. "They always are, but
you'll have to agree that there was a very significant common factor.
Why are you on my planet? Your presence endangers everybody around you,
and from my initial checking you lack the kind of funds required to
secure my services."

"Keffa has suggested that not all payments need be made in credits,"
Chir replied, paraphrasing Keffa's lengthy examples about the sort of
work Vakno might put them up to should they request a trade of favours.
"I have my own ship, and it's full of Gaoian soldiers. Surely--"

"Had." Vakno interrupted, a hint of genuine amusement entering her
smile. "You can have *that* one for free."

There was a confused silence for a moment, filled only with the three
visitors looking at each other in incomprehension until the light slowly
dawned. Darragh looked at Vakno, swallowing cold dread, and asked the
question. "What do you mean, 'had'?"

"I'm not in the habit of expanding upon my freebies," Vakno replied,
"but I am enjoying this. Your vessel left orbit shortly before you got
here, and to be honest I'd thought you must have been on it until I saw
you here."

"But--" Keffa began.

"No!" the Corti information specialist interjected, rising to her feet.
"That much is *all* you get. Get out. Never return."

There was no mistaking the finality of her decision, nor the menacing
way the two turret--drones inched closer to them in a very intimidating
sort of display. Chir looked at the two death--machines and said it for
all of them. "I think we should leave."

They did so, and did it in a hurry, wanting to get clear of the building
and to somewhere they'd be able to get more information, and were
unsurprised when the front door slammed shut behind them, and the heavy
locking mechanism sounded off.

"Could she have been lying?" Darragh asked Keffa as Chir opened up his
communicator and started trying to contact the ship. "She might have
been lying just to get us out of there, right?"

"She might have been, but she enjoyed it too much, and besides," Keffa
said, looking down at the increasingly frustrated Gaoian commander, "It
doesn't look like we're getting any evidence against it."

Chir gave up in a snarl. "I\'m getting *nothing*!"

"I don't understand how that's possible," Darragh said, although he had
a few troubling suspicions. "Surely they would have sent word if they
were being attacked?"

"We all know how that might have happened," Keffa said, biting her lip
slightly in hesitation that showed she didn't much like what she was
about to say. "We've been betrayed, and our ship has been stolen."

"I don't want to think about my own crew betraying me," Chir said,
gripping the communicator in what would have passed for a Gaoian
death--grip. "Not *again*! What kind of commander does it make me if my
crew are constantly turning against me?"

"Well..." Darragh started, remembering all of the genital--shooting that
had resulted in them getting the vessel in the first place.

"No," Chir interrupted, holding up a hand. "I know it isn't *me*, and I
know that Gaoian males don't do this sort of thing. If something has
happened to my ship, then something has happened to my crew."

Darragh shared a glance with Keffa; she looked like she had her doubts,
and he added them to his own. There was a certain naivet√© to the idea
that Gaoian males were above that sort of treachery, and it was not
something that Darragh felt did Chir any favours. That bubble would need
to be popped eventually, but for now it was more important to focus on
what they were going to do next.

"We can't stand here all day," he said, "we need to decide what we're
going to do. We have no money, we have no cruiser, and we have no Doctor
to patch us up if we're injured."

Keffa swore. "Doctor Grznk was on the cruiser!"

"Unfortunate if he's dead," Chir said. "He's been with us since before
Cimbrean, and it was reassuring to have a skilled surgeon around for
when we needed it."

"City first then," Keffa said, making her first steps in the direction
they'd come. "Someone at the starport might know *something*, and we're
going to have to find some sort of work if we want to eat."

"I'm already hungry," Darragh complained. "I would have packed a
sandwich if I'd known we were likely to lose our feckin' ship around a
planet called *Perfection*! At least there are worse places for thing to
go completely tits up."

Breathing out a decisive huff, Chir turned to look up at Darragh. "Don't
worry, I won't allow you to come to further harm. I-- where's Keffa?"

They looked around for any sign of her and found none. She wasn't there.
She wasn't anywhere.

"Where'd she feckin' go?" Darragh mumbled, trying to puzzle out how a
girl of that size could vanish without a trace. There wasn't anywhere
they could see for her to slip away, and had she run they would have
heard her doing it. For all intents and purposes Keffa had vanished into
thin air.

"This doesn\'t sit well with me," Chir growled. "Something is wrong.
Draw your gun, Darragh, I think we are--"

He didn\'t finish his sentence, and this time Darragh saw the reason; a
flash of motion as Chir was lifted in a shimmering beam of light, almost
imperceptible against the bright light of day, and then gone into
nothing in the course of a moment. It was just like something out of
judgement day, but Darragh had grown a little dubious on the existence
of the Catholic God, and figured that even if he was real he probably
didn\'t use Corti abduction beams. Someone or something had taken them,
and Darragh was guessing that it wasn\'t to help them. He drew his
stungun, just as Chir had suggested, and fired directly above himself.

The discharge outlined a shape, a craft the size of an escape pod, that
was moving into position directly above him. He knew he had to get away,
that he had to run, and he stumbled back as he filled with panicked
indecision. Then the moment was over, and he was being lifted into the
air, just as he had when the Corti had first abducted him.

But back then he hadn\'t had a gun, and even if he had he would have
been too scared shitless to have done anything with it. That was not the
case today; he fired off two more blasts, straight up into the insides
of whatever was taking him, and the beam faltered.

The beam failed.

Darragh hit the ground hard, landing heavily on his side and hitting his
head with enough force that for a moment the world was all white. There
was a crashing sound, the unmistakable sound of something big falling on
something bigger, and he twisted around to see a Corti--styled pod stuck
in a very large hole in a nearby residence. Neither owner was likely to
be happy.

But it was visible, and he knew it on sight; he\'d seen them when he\'d
escaped the Corti all those years ago: it was a Corti abduction drone,
deployed to take a single sample, and that could only mean that there
were others. If he was going to get away, he had to do it before they
managed to deploy another one to take its place.

Darragh got to his feet, finding plenty bruised but nothing broken, and
hobbled for safety. He had to get to the public street, he had to get
into a crowd, and preferably indoors, and he had to find some place
where he could sit down and figure his way out of this mess. He\'d
barely made the street when the police arrived, pouring from their
vehicles in the alien equivalent of riot gear and taking up position
before he could change course.

They were there for him, and there were at least some Irbzrkian stunguns
amongst all the kinetic pulse guns. He raised his hands in the
interstellar sign of surrender, and experienced for the first time the
pleasure of being hit with fifty--thousand volts. It seemed they
weren\'t taking any chances.

‚ÅÇ

**The Superior Firepower, subverted Hierarchy Command Cruiser**\
**Askit**

Xayn, the V\'Straki interloper who\'d somehow managed to impress Adrian
simply by existing, eyed the human carefully as he considered his
decision. He\'d been doing that for the past (two minutes) and Adrian
was beginning to look bored.

"You can make a choice any fucking time you like," Adrian said,
stretching his neck and rolling a shoulder to relieve the tedium.

"I have many options!" the V\'Straki hissed back. "I am considering them
carefully! I believe... do you have any \'fives\'?"

They were playing a game that Adrian called \'Go Fish\' while Askit and
Trix were actually working. The two Deathworlders had crafted a deck of
cards together, according to Adrian\'s specifications, and following a
brief explanation of the childishly simple rules they were both playing
to win. Askit, finding himself with little to do while a progress bar
filled on the console in front of him, was watching them with some vague
form of interest from the security cameras.

That\'s how he knew that Adrian was cheating.

"Go Fish," the human replied, grinning manically over his cards. There
were three fives in his hand.

Xayn grumbled as he took up another card, a solitary seven that didn\'t
help his cause whatsoever. "Shit."

Unlike the V\'Straki, Adrian\'s consideration of his choices took a mere
moment. "Got any \'sevens\'?"

"Go Fish," the V\'Straki replied. It appeared that the compulsion to
disobey the rules of a child\'s cardgame extended to both species.

Trycrur, present by hover--cam proxy, was apparently watching the game
with similar interest along with some surprise over what was going on.
"Are they... are they *both* cheating?"

"Yes they are," Askit said, smiling wryly. "I\'m not sure what the point
of it is supposed to be, since if this continues it seems like they\'ll
each end up with half of the deck."

Adrian had drawn a card, an \'eight\', which didn\'t much help his hand
at all, and Xayn was again considering his options. Fortunately he was
somewhat less delayed in his decision this time. "Do you have a
\'six\'?"

There was no need for Adrian to lie this time. "Go Fish. Do you have any
\'fives\'?"

"I do not!" the V\'Straki automatically responded. "Go--"

"That is fucking bullshit!" Adrian shot back. "You just asked for
\'fives\' like two fucking seconds ago. Why would you do that without
any fives?"

V\'Straki looked a lot like a Vulza twisted into humanoid form, just
without the wings, and had a somewhat elongated face like brown leather
with mouthful of sharp teeth as long as Askit\'s fingers.

"It is part of my strategy," Xayn explained, although he was less than
convincing. "I aim to confound you."

A blind man could tell that Adrian didn\'t believe a word of it; raised
eyebrow, knowing smile and outstretched hand all said it for him before
he uttered a word. "Just give me the fucking card."

Xayn grumbled, but did as he was told. He was rewarded with a look of
triumph as Adrian put down a set of four \'fives\'.

"That is impossible!" Xayn accused. "It is not possible to have drawn
more than a single \'five\' since I last requested one!"

"I was aiming to *confound* you," Adrian said, clearly pleased with
himself. "It\'s a fucking *strategy*."

Askit turned the sound off as the two began to argue. "I believe there
may be more to this game than the rules imply; at least there is if you
play it the way those two are playing it."

The progress bar finally filled, and Askit\'s attention was diverted to
the wealth of information scraped from the legion of Dominion databanks
that had fallen to his cyber--predations. He filtered it for the results
he wanted, running automated cross--referencing tools of his own
devising until he finally had some answers.

"Does that say what I think it says?" Trycrur asked, still looking over
his shoulder in an extremely irritating way, and Askit made a mental
note to figure out how to create a display that only he could see which
didn\'t involve cybernetic eyes.

"It *does*," Askit conceded, and pointedly closed out of it before any
more secrets could be spilled without a big reveal. "I think we\'d
better get the others in on this."

‚ÅÇ

**The Superior Firepower, subverted Hierarchy Command Cruiser**\
**Adrian Saunders**

"\'Go Fish\'? More like \'Go Fuck Yourself\'," Adrian said, keeping his
hands over his hard--won \'fives\'. "You were doing the *exact* same
thing!"

"That is different!" Xayn defended. "When I did it I had no idea you
were holding three of them!"

Askit approached carefully from the side of the argument. "If I might
make an observation, you were also withholding sevens."

Adrian blinked at Askit as the information sunk in, then turned back to
the V\'Straki. "What the fuck, man? How can you complain about it when
you were doing *that* as well?"

"Because I am losing!" Xayn growled back. "Cheating is not a viable
strategy!"

Adrian slapped the table. "Cheating is always a viable fucking
strategy!"

"Such things make you sound like my father!" Xayn complained. "He was
always going on about strategy!"

"That..." Adrian said, raising a finger and pointing at the V\'Straki.
"That is a fucking weird kind of thing to say."

Askit coughed politely, a repetition of something he\'d obviously seen
Adrian himself do at some point. "If I might *interrupt* this...
whatever it is, I think you should know that I\'ve found some things."

Adrian\'s attention was on him immediately. "About Jen?"

"*Priorities*, Adrian!" Askit scolded him. "It is of vital importance
that we get the reptilian bio--weapon here an implant so he doesn\'t
kill everyone around him who isn\'t protected."

"So you found Grizzles," Adrian ascertained. "Good job. Where\'d you
find him?"

"Perfection," Askit replied.

"I said \'where\', not \'how\'," Adrian remarked dryly.

"Very amusing," Askit said, oozing sarcasm in spite of actually seeming
to be a little amused. "The planet Perfection is a Class Three world.
That is how it got its name."

"You do not seem pleased by this, Askit," Xayn observed, studying the
little grey alien with the kind of attention to detail only a predator
could muster. "I would say you are... displeased?"

He didn\'t have much in the way of eyebrows, but Askit managed to raise
one enough to be noticed. "I would say you are... correct?"

"So, what\'s the problem?" Adrian asked, interrupting any further
exchange of pointless bickering.

Askit seated himself, folding his hands on the table. "There is a Corti
female on that planet who goes by the name of Vakno. She claims to be an
information specialist, but for the right price she\'ll take care of
more than just information."

Adrian frowned. "So not an old flame then?"

"No fire of any kind is involved..." Askit replied, confused once again
by the use of idioms. "But there are two reasons why I believe that she
was their most likely destination. The first reason is that there\'s
literally nothing else on the planet I can picture Chir being interested
in, and the second reason is that Darragh Houston was arrested in the
vicinity of her place of business."

"Darragh got arrested?" Adrian asked. "For the bank robbery? Or did some
other shit hit the fan?"

"That would be... a mess," Xayn mused as Askit pondered his next words.
"There would be fecal matter everywhere..."

"The reports I\'ve found show that some kind of drone smashed into a
nearby residence, and when police responded they found Darragh alone at
the scene, and peacefully detained him," Askit explained. "He has since
been held over the bank robbery. Prior to that incident their cruiser
left orbit, *without* the lander, and did not file a route with system
control. "

None of that stacked up to good news, and especially not for Darragh.
Adrian reckoned that in the best case scenario, Darragh had gone down on
his own and had gotten himself caught, but from having known Darragh it
didn\'t seem like the sort of mess he got himself into on his own. The
most likely scenario was that shit was severely fucked, and that
everybody was in some sort of trouble.

"Fucksake," he said with a heavy sigh. "We should probably start by
rescuing that dickhead. You reckon this \'Vakno\' is a likely suspect
behind this fucking shemozzle?

"Maybe," Askit considered, rubbing his undersized chin as he mulled it
over. "She\'s cold enough, calculating too, but she wouldn\'t do it
unless she had a good reason, or was being paid a fortune, which would
amount to the same thing."

Xayn growled, a slightly grating hiss of a noise that expressed his
frustration and confusion. If nothing else, the game of Go Fish had
given them an understanding of each other\'s expressions and mindsets,
and in view of the differences between them it had been a little
surprising they had so much in common. "I don\'t understand this. Are we
intending to rescue a criminal from legal authorities?"

"Yeah..." Adrian said, remembering now that he\'d forgotten to ever
mention that part of their reputation. "As it turns out we\'re all
criminals, but if it makes you feel any better the Galactic government
are probably under control of the Hierarchy, and those guys are stone
cold evil."

Xayn growled again. "That only makes me feel very slightly better,
Adrian Saunders."

"Don\'t worry," said Askit, "you\'ll get used to having the galaxy for
an enemy. Some of the things people out there would do to Adrian if they
managed to get their hands on him... truly awful."

"Wait, what?" Adrian asked. He\'d never actually heard about this, and
apart from the people on Irbzrk and in government he hadn\'t expected
anybody to really know his name or anything about him, let alone plot
against him.

Askit waved the matter aside. "It hardly matters. They all still think
we\'re dead, after all."

"They\'re probably about to find out that we\'re not," Adrian said.
"Especially when we kick down the door to their prison and bust Darragh
out."

"Perhaps some disguises are in order?" Xayn mused. "If you are both
despised as much as you say, it would seem prudent to keep our enemies
ignorant of your survival for as long as possible. And then, when the
time is right, we spring from the shadows and *crush them*!"

He pounded the table and sent the cards flying. Then, with a muttered
apology, he leant down and started picking them up.

"So we go kick down the prison door, wearing masks, and rescue Darragh,"
Adrian plotted, "and then we go visit this \'Vakno\' and throw questions
at her until we get what we want, and then we rescue whoever else needs
rescuing. Sound like a plan?"

"It sounds like Plan B," Askit said. "But with masks."

Squaring the cards after making sure he\'d found them all, Xayn looked
between them in obvious confusion. "What is this \'Plan B\'?"

Adrian turned to him, a cool smile curving the edge of his lip. "That\'s
the one where we make people sorry they ever fucked with us."

‚ÅÇ

**Vaulting Star, Gaoian Patrol Cruiser**\
**Doctor Grznk**

The best thing that Grznk could say about his situation was that he was
still alive. That would have been more comforting if he wasn\'t
currently in hiding from enemy forces invading the starship, or if he
wasn\'t the only survivor. It had all happened so fast that there had
not been any meaningful resistance, and from what he\'d been able to
tell the command deck had fallen to the enemy before the Allebenellin
had even boarded.

Betrayal from within.

Grznk had survived because he\'d broken the scanners in the medical room
as soon as he\'d realised what was going on. It had been quick thinking,
and once upon a time he would have simply panicked and fall victim, but
there\'d been enough traumatic events in his life to let him recover his
wits. He supposed he should be grateful to Adrian Saunders for that
much.

"First step in any emergency," he said to himself, quietly enough that
nobody could overhear if they were in the same room, let alone walking
through the corridor outside, "is to assess the situation..."

He paused, mulling it all over, and came to his conclusion. "The
situation is completely *fucked*."

Not a phrase he would have used once upon a time, but it seemed that
proximity to foul--mouthed humans changed his perspective on many
things. Right now he was stuck in the relative safety of his medical
room. He had no way of knowing where anybody else was on the ship, or at
least not without potentially alerting them, and as the ship was
currently travelling faster--than--light there was no chance of escaping
on the secondary lander.

An escape pod would allow it, but leaving on one of those would not only
alert the enemy, it would also leave him in an escape pod and at the
mercy of whomever these people represented. Not an ideal situation.

The bleak reality of it was that he was alone, he was stuck, and he
wasn\'t getting out of there without some help.

"I suppose it\'s too much to ask to be unexpectedly abducted by Adrian
Saunders for a second time?" he asked the universe bitterly.

As usual, the universe kept its answers to itself. All there was left to
do was to sit and to wait for circumstances to shift in his favour.

It was not a good plan.

‚ÅÇ

**The Superior Firepower, subverted Hierarchy Command Cruiser**\
**Askit**

The hover--cam was waiting for him when he returned to his office, and
Askit could feel the accusations emanating from it even before they were
said. It floated closer to him, likely making its best attempt at a
leer.

"You\'re a little close," he said dryly. "Unless you\'re trying your
hand at macro--photography, in which case I suggest that a better
subject might be *literally anything else*."

"You lied to Adrian!" Trycrur accused. "You should have told him what
else we found."

He frowned at the small drone, stepped past it and returned to his seat.
He didn\'t like speaking with the drone, there was something more
disconcerting about that than through the use of the communications
system, but if Trycrur insisted on this method then he may as well be in
his most comfortable place. He regarded the little robot for a moment,
leaned back into his chair and sighed. "We both know what would happen
if I revealed everything. Those two are *dangerous*, and we have a moral
obligation to guide them."

The little drone tilted slightly, managing to convey an expression of
serious doubt. "You are not the sort of Corti to whom I would ascribe a
\'moral obligation\', Askit, although I would not ascribe it to *any*
Corti. You, however, are a criminal and a liar."

"I am both of those things, Trycrur," he admitted; it wasn\'t like it
was uncommon knowledge. "I am also interested in focusing our efforts on
achieving our goals. You want a body, *I* want to crush my enemies and
make a lot of money doing it. Going after Jen right now would be a
distraction. We need Grznk, and from the sounds of it Grznk needs us,
and I\'m not going to let Adrian run off to find his female when she\'s
most probably either completely fine or already dead. We both know he
would."

Trycrur was silent, and the hover--cam drifted back and forth in a
convincing fascimile of thoughtful pacing. Askit regarded it as it did
so, waiting for it to finally stop.

"You\'re right," Trycrur admitted. "It doesn\'t erase the fact that
he\'s going to be extremely pissed off when you tell him the truth."

"I am not going to tell him the truth," Askit said, "for exactly that
reason. I\'m not an idiot."

"And once we have Grznk..." Trycrur began, leading off in the
expectation that Askit would finish the sentence for her.

He obliged. "We will have him fix the V\'Straki. Then we will probably
have to deal with whatever has decided to mess with Chir, and *then* we
can go and find Jen. I\'d feel a lot better about heading into that part
of space with a medic, an accomplished strategist, and two more humans."

"And what about Point Zero?" Trycrur asked, referring to the mysterious
origin point she\'d discovered in Zero\'s memories, and she\'d asked him
to check for any details surrounding the coordinates.

What he\'d found had been a near total lack of them, to the point that
it rubbed him the wrong way. That point in space was supposedly a
singularity, and had absolutely no interesting features to it
whatsoever. It was as boring as a singularity could be, and nobody had
ever bothered to send a probe to inspect it. Nothing of any note had
ever happened in that part of space at all.

Space was vast, so that wasn\'t impossible, but given the source of the
information it seemed improbable. The way it seemed to Askit, somebody
was doing their level best to ensure nobody went anywhere near it, and
nobody -- Zero included -- had any kind of information regarding what
might actually be there.

"I\'ve learned my lesson," he told her. "There\'s supposed to be a
singularity there, but if it isn\'t then it\'s definitely something the
Hierarchy want to keep hidden. Either way, I\'m not going there
unprepared, and we don\'t share the news with Adrian until we\'ve got
something better to go on."

"Had enough of flying stolen Hierarchy ships around singularities?"
Trycrur asked wryly. "I can\'t imagine why."

Sighing again, Askit spun his chair and returned to his work. "I\'ll let
you know if I find anything new."

‚ÅÇ

**Derktha, Agwaren Capital City**\
**Jennifer Delaney**

Some people just want to watch the world burn.

Jennifer Delaney was not one of those people. She did not enjoy the
choking smoke, or everything being on fire, or the flying robots that
were killing everybody with flamethrowers. Those topped the list of
things that she didn\'t enjoy.

She and Groddi were crawling, heads below the smoke where there was
still breathable air, and had been trying to figure out what the fuck
was going on when one of the robots had rounded a corner at speed. It
was, like the ones on the mountain, a robot that reminded her of a
floating metal crab, but as this one lacked limbs that turned into god
damned fusion weapons it had one vital flaw.

It had something she could grab.

Although it had been moving quickly, incinerating everybody in front of
it, it had needed to slow down to take the corner, and was above them
before it realised what was going on. About that same time it had
discovered it was now in the iron grip of an infuriated Irish girl and
was being swung back and forth against the walls until it was thoroughly
broken.

Groddi had been suitably impressed, first inspecting the ruined
machinery and then staring at Jen as if he was having a revelation. "...
So fast! Maybe you really *are* the Chosen One... that was a servant of
the Dark One you just destroyed."

"That\'s nice," she said, "but it\'s just a fucking robot and it tried
to cook us, so maybe you could be amazed later on? What are these things
even doing here?"

As usual he failed to understand a word that was being said, and she
sighed in frustration. Then he presented her with his sword.

"I believe you may be able to put this to better use, Chosen One," he
said, far more respectfully than he had previously been. "Please, honour
me by using my sword to save us."

"Sure," she said, taking the heavy blade and checking it over. It was
sharp, cutting into her probing thumb with only a small amount of
pressure, and it was heavy enough for her to realise that her
pre--Space--Babe self would never have been able to use it.

"You don\'t even know how to use a sword," Old Jen whispered from the
reflection in the blade. "And what\'s a sword going to do against
flamethrower robots?"

New Jen glared at the reflection. "It\'s going to kill them. I am going
to kill flamethrowing robots with an alien sword. Today might not be so
bad."

"Apart from all the dead Agwarens?" Old Jen asked.

New Jen shrugged. "Their day might not have been quite as good."

Time to ignore her past and focus on the present, she looked up at a
befuddled Groddi and gave him a resolute nod that even he\'d understand.
He nodded back, and then she was away, sword in hand, chasing the source
of the smoke for the machine killers.

They were easy to find, she just had to follow the screams. The first
she came upon had just finished roasting up an Agwaren knight who\'d
been defending a group -- possibly a family? -- of cowering commoners.
It turned to face her too slowly, and the heavy blade smashed through it
in a flash of steel that drew gasps from her audience. It came away
awash in plasma fire, blue flames licking at the sizzling blade. It was
lucky it had a leather grip, or her hand would have been sizzled along
with it.

"Shit, that\'s fucking hot!" she cried out, sticking the damned thing
into the ground while she donned her cold--weather gloves. She was
overly--warm already, but better that than third--degree burns, and she
still had a lot of heroing to do.

It was time for Plan B.

‚ÅÇ

**Unknown time, unknown location**\
**Chir**

For the second time in his life, Chir had emerged from stasis to find
himself a prisoner to unknown forces. At least this time it didn\'t look
like he was also going to be made a slave, although at this point it was
hard to tell whether that was going to be a good thing or a bad thing.

He was in a cell of sorts, a brightly lit white box with three walls and
a forcefield strong enough to keep him where he was, wherever that might
be. The box itself was not without facilities, coming with an
uncomfortable bed, dispensers for water and nutrient spheres, and a
metallic recepticle to remove his leavings. That wasn\'t good, these
were the sorts of things you put people in when you wanted to keep them
for a very long time, and thanks to the stasis he could be literally
anywhere in the galaxy by now, and might have been held for any length
of time. He wondered if the two humans had been brought along with him,
or if they were confined elsewhere, serving some other purpose, or dead.

It was the not--knowing that was the worst; that and the immeasurable
boredom. He had no way of knowing how long it was before he finally
slept, and no way of knowing how long he slept for, but when he finally
awoke he was no longer alone: a solitary figure was outside his cell,
standing in the featureless, grey corridor.

It was a Gaoian. It was a female. It was *Layla*. He couldn\'t get to
his feet fast enough.

"Layla!" he said, his eyes darting around her for any signs of a trap or
coercion and finding none. "What is going on? You\'re supposed to be on
*Gao*!"

"I was, briefly," she said coolly, her eyes fixed on his. "I was
coordinating the strategy to bring you into our custody, but I came once
you\'d finally been captured."

"*You* orchestrated this!?" Chir asked. He was aghast that the mother of
his cub would act against him so coldly, and with such premeditation,
for no apparent reason. "How? Why?"

"I coordinated your *capture*, Chir," she replied. "I am not the will
behind it, and if you are looking for someone to blame then point the
finger at yourself! Did you imagine that you could go on plundering
forever, or that you could retire and nobody would come seeking
reprisal?"

"Then you\'re working for someone?" he demanded. "Why not simply kill me
and have done with it?"

"Who I am working for is unimportant, Chir," she said. "What we *want*
is paramount. You will work for us, and should you survive... well, if
you do a good job you may even get to keep living."

Chir couldn\'t repress a growl. "Why would I possibly accept *those*
conditions?"

"Because you don\'t wish your cub to come to harm," she replied flatly,
her hard eyes leaving no doubt of her capacity to make good on the
threat. It was hard to believe that this was the same female he had lain
with, whose company he had so enjoyed, and with whom he had shared his
secrets; discovering that it had all been a ruse felt like a black knife
twisting in his chest.

"You are a monster," he said with absolute certainty. Gaoian females
were renown for their protection of each other, and above all their
children; it was unheard of for one to actually threaten the life of her
own cub. "What is so *important* that you need to threaten me with
something like *that*?"

She smiled, undoubtedly satisfied at how quickly he\'d come around to
her point of view. "The job is simple: I want you to kill that annoying
Corti hacker, Askit, along with his human friend. Cheer up, Chir,
you\'re going to be the man who killed Adrian Saunders."

Chir growled back his obligate protest, more guttural than he\'d had
cause to be for a very long time. "You *fucking* bitch!

The smile faltered for a moment, and she even flinched, but it was back
a moment later as if it had never left. "That," she said, "is how you
got into this mess."
:::
