---
title: Black Flag
---

# Black Flag

\

\

::: chapter
There was a brief silence as everyone remained motionless. Then Adrian
started to descend the gangway and as he walked he started talking.

"Alright, this situation is about as fucked as it could possibly get,"
he said.

"French?" Jen asked, clearly surprised to hear him swearing so casually.

"Not this time, sweetheart," he replied. "Jen, meet Chir and Trix.
Vice--versa. Introductions complete, everybody lower your guns and relax
because the news gets worse from here on in."

Trycrur and Chir looked at each other and then did so, taking a step
away from Jen just in case of any sudden movements.

"Good," said Adrian, "everybody is friends. Right now I\'ve got a pair
of doctors on board. They\'re not happy to be there but they haven\'t
got any kind of choice in the matter."

"Why do you have doctors?" Chir asked, eying the entrance to the Hunter
vessel.

"Jen here doesn\'t have an inoculation implant," he said. "That little
oversight has already taken out one crew. We need to assume that you\'re
both infected with whatever she\'s carrying."

Trycrur and Chir looked at each other entirely aghast, taking another
few steps back from Jen who seemed equally horrified at what was being
said.

"Sorry to drop that on you like this, Jen," Adrian apologised, "but
since these two have turned up we\'re going to have to hurry. I don\'t
want my friends here dying like those Ringle--pringles."

Jen looked at the two aliens. "These are your friends? That explains why
the robot didn\'t kill them."

"I hadn\'t removed them from the database yet," Adrian said. "Figured if
they ever decided to come back I didn\'t necessarily want them killed
before I could tell them to go fuck themselves."

"Adrian," Trycrur began, "I\'m sorry, we--"

"Left me a note," Adrian said, bitterly. "I\'m a big boy, Trix, you
could have just told me you were going. You all had lives to return to."

"But," she tried to continue.

"We\'ve got other things to worry about," Adrian interrupted her. He
wasn\'t in the mood to discuss things that didn\'t directly relate to
everyone getting out of this situation alive. "I have the implants for
Jen. I got the doctors. Nobody leaves before this thing is contained, I
may be a bastard but I won\'t be responsible for a galaxy--wide plague."

"What do you need us to do?" Chir asked.

"Right now? I\'m currently in the middle of abducting two Dominion
doctors, Chir," Adrian replied, "do you want that sort of thing on your
record?"

"Not particularly," Chir admitted. "You were intending to return them
alive, then?"

"I\'m not some sort of fucking monster, Chir," Adrian replied sharply.
"I don\'t murder people. Not even people who really have it coming."

He let them wonder over that one, and as far as he was concerned they
could keep wondering. The details of that were his business alone. "This
is how we\'ll play it," he explained, "Chir and Trycrur will be put in
the brig as my prisoners."

"I\'m not liking this plan so far," Chir said.

Adrian looked at him. "If you\'re my \'unwilling prisoners\' then
you\'re not going to be marked as criminals in this undertaking of mine,
are you?"

Chir looked uncomfortable. "Probably not," he said, "but still..."

"It\'s only for as long as it takes to make sure you\'re cured," Adrian
promised him. "If we don\'t do it, you won\'t have a home to go back to.
It\'s better if it\'s just me."

"Why don\'t *you* have a home to return to?" Jen asked. "I mean, I\'ve
probably had the bank seize mine..."

"Not a discussion for now, Jen," he said. Or ever, he thought. There\'d
come a time, though, when he\'d have to tell her as much, but right now
he needed to keep her mind on the task. "You will be playing the part of
my significant other."

"You want me to pretend to be your wife?" she asked with a smirk. "I
already told you I\'m not doing your laundry."

"I\'ve already proven my... aptitude to these doctors," Adrian told her.
"I\'ll make sure they don\'t try anything too interesting when they do
the surgery."

"So in summary," Trycrur said, "we pretend to be your prisoners, and you
\'convince\' these doctors to treat us all in addition to implanting
\'Jen\' with whatever it is she needs."

"When you say it like that," Adrian said, "it does sound like a terrible
plan."

Chir grunted. "It\'s because it *is* a terrible plan, but somehow your
terrible plans always manage to keep us all alive."

"What he\'s saying," Trycrur interpreted, "is that we\'ll do it."

⁂

"This way, Doctors," Adrian said, leading the two Corti doctors from the
Hunter vessel and across the flight deck. "You both being Corti
simplifies things; I\'ve recently come into possession of a Corti heavy
scout, so I\'m sure you\'ll be familiar with the medical facilities."

"That is the Endless Sequence," one of the Doctors, evidently the senior
of the pair, "and it was supposed to have been destroyed when a crazed
human... ah."

"Ah, I\'ve been figured out," Adrian said, pretending that this was
somehow very unfortunate. "My acts of piracy are revealed."

"You\'ll be considered a criminal by both the Dominion and the Corti
Directorate, along with everybody else you\'ve crossed paths with," the
doctor said. "I can only imagine that I will not be returning home."

"I\'ve already made my intentions clear when I shot your fucking landing
vessel through your ship," Adrian said. "Black flag is already raised,
mate. I just need you to sort out a few problems for me."

He stepped aside as the two Corti followed him into the Endless
Sequence, and studied them closely as they moved. They were clearly
terrified of him -- he had not been particularly gentle with his
abduction of them, which, when he considered their species, was
wonderfully ironic -- but they were also concerned about whatever it was
he needed from them, it was apparently not commonplace to seize medical
personnel from a Dominion warship and he hadn\'t yet told them the
situation.

"This," he said as they entered the state--of--the--art medical room and
found Jen waiting there, "is Jen. And she\'s just the first reason
you\'re here."

⁂

Two humans in one place, thought Grnzk as he studied the female. That
was a terrifying enough prospect, given the Great Hunt, although from
the looks of things the Hunters had already been here and hadn\'t left
with any of their equipment.

All the more reason to regard these particular humans as something
unusual.

"What is wrong with her?" he asked, not seeing any obvious signs of
injury or sickness.

"She\'s in dire need of a translator implant," the male human said. "I
picked up some from the old crew of this vessel, but I also have some
fresh ones. Reckon we\'ll use one of those."

"You abducted two Dominion doctors from a warship to install a
translator implant?" Grnzk asked angrily. "You could have had that done
on any world you went to!"

"There\'s another problem," the male said. "Your problem now, too."

Grnzk glanced sidelong at Rklkrk. They had agreed to let Grnzk do all
the talking, but Grnzk was finding he could use some support in dealing
with this aggressive being. "What other problem?"

"She hasn\'t been inoculated," the male said flatly. "Everybody on this
ship is probably infected."

Grnzk and Rklkrk stared at the female human in horror. She was smiling
at them wanly, as though ashamed of being a walking biowarfare factory
instead of doing the galaxy a favour and incinerating herself on the
spot.

"That is problematic," Grnzk said, his voice wavering unintentionally.
That was an understatement, of course; it was nothing short of a
disaster, and although he had heard of the pathogens and their
treatments through his connections in the medical industry, he wasn\'t
personally familiar with them. If they were infected, it was unlikely
that they\'d last long enough to re--develop the treatments.

"If we are already exposed," he told the male human, "I am uncertain
that I\'ll have enough time to fabricate the cures. I was not expecting
to be treating any humans and we lack the knowledge to re--create the
treatments in time."

"Not a problem," the human male said, holding up a datapad. "I have it
all right here. You see, baldy, this ship *was* prepared for carrying a
human -- me, in fact -- and all of the information on the cures you\'ll
need is right here. And only here."

"I see," said Grnzk, "so if we behave ourselves and fix the female..."

"Fix my *wife*," the human male corrected, "just so you understand the
importance of it, but yes. You\'ll get the cure, and then you\'ll use it
to treat yourselves and my other prisoners."

"There are others being subjected to your particular brand of savage
diplomacy?" Grnzk asked. "Do they also need translators and
inoculations?"

"Just the cure will be fine, mate," the human male told him. "And when
I\'m satisfied that everybody is feeling better, I\'ll drop you two off
at the nearest civilisation."

"I suppose we\'ll just have to trust you, then," Grnzk said bitterly.
Not that that would stop him from attempting to escape the human at the
earliest opportunity, not when this ship was being hunted by the
Hunters, the Dominion, and who knew what else? These humans were like a
beacon for all sorts of unfortunate events to happen to them, and Grnzk
wasn\'t so careless with his life that he wanted to be anywhere nearby
when the first of them occurred.

⁂

Jennifer Delaney. Mid--twenties, laying on a bed in some sort of alien
hospital where wee grey aliens were about to install certain things in
her body. She was beginning to suspect that life had just been teasing
her when Adrian had rescued her from the Blue Encounter, offering a
faint glimpse of hope before throwing her fully into an real--life
nightmare.

"I\'ve never liked hospitals," she told Adrian with a thin smile. "they
do my head in. Especially alien ones, it looks like. Been ascared of
them since I was knee high, you know? My ma had to spend a while in one,
when she was awful sick. All those tubes and things... she was there for
months before they finally let her out, but I\'d never wanted to go and
see her."

She was a little surprised he sat on the edge of her bed, his hand on
her arm but his gaze somewhere else. It seemed softer, more distant and
full of memory. "Yeah," he said, "me too. But mine didn\'t get better."

She swallowed hard. "I\'m sorry to hear that," she said, it was the best
she could come up with after that kind of revelation. This was the first
conversation they were having where she wasn\'t doing most of the
exposition, and as conversations went this one was getting a little dark
and intense. His hand *was* nice and warm on her arm though, even if
they were a little rough from all his years of hard labour.

"Terminal cancer," he continued quietly. "Not all that rare down in Oz,
but this was before they had any half--decent drugs like they do these
days."

"That\'s a bad way to go," she said, equally quietly. She\'d lost an
older cousin to cancer, and although they hadn\'t been close she\'d at
least made the effort to visit. A visit that had only reinforced her
dislike of hospitals, in fact.

He nodded. "Yeah, it\'s hard on everyone. My step--dad lost his mind
after she passed..." he stopped, returning to the his normal self with a
false smile.

"But in any case, you\'ve got nothing to worry about." He said as he
pointed to his own head. "I speak from experience. This is a standard
procedure for these guys."

He lifted his hand from her arm and slid from the bed, and as he did so
she felt a sudden burst of anxiety. "Adrian," she said, "you\'ll be
staying in the room for this, right?"

He smiled a little at her. "Yeah, Jen," he said. "I\'ll be right here."

⁂

Adrian had sat watching the procedure with some interest, keeping an eye
on the doctors to make sure they didn\'t try anything stupid. He wasn\'t
anything like a doctor himself, but he could tell that the medical
technology available on the Corti ship put anything on Earth to shame.

Right now he was looking at Jen\'s brain, a not disconcerting experience
given he\'d been having a conversation with her less than half an hour
ago. Possibly a deeper conversation than he intended, but like her he
had nothing but bad experiences in hospitals and he\'d wanted to put her
at ease.

He knew that he should at least try to get her home, or at the very
least find out more about the barrier that had sealed Earth away from
the rest of the galaxy. He also knew that he was being selfish when
he\'d decided that he didn\'t want to. It wasn\'t that he thought he
owned her, or that she owed him anything, or even that he\'d really like
to share her bed. It was that he had been starting to lose it, being out
here alone without any *human* contact, and that he *needed* someone to
stop him from going completely crazy. Today he had effectively declared
war on the largest governing body in the galaxy for her sake -- not a
particularly sane thing to do -- so he supposed that perhaps his mind
was not fully intact.

The Corti doctors inserted the first of the devices, the translator,
into her skull at this point, and Adrian winced as he watched the small
device being worked into position. He\'d been unfortunate enough to see
some really fucked up things regarding human body parts, and had become
somewhat inured to the awfulness of it all, and yet he still wished
he\'d been able to have someone else watch surgery being done.

He snorted. Clearly there\'d not been enough concrete in his wheatbix
this morning if he was getting uncomfortable at something this small. It
might have been the personal factor that was doing it, however.

"Harden up, Saunders," he muttered to himself. "It\'s not as though
there are bombs going off."

That was about when the Zhadersil\'s intruder system activated, and the
bombs started going off. The doctors looked up to him in a panic,
although they did not stop working.

Adrian rubbed his temple. "I should stop talking."

⁂

**Agvidl, Celzi Light Cruiser: Command Deck**

Ship Master Hkrzitl looked at the enormous alien vessel on his
viewscreen. It was an unknown, and he could definitely rule out
construction by Dominion or Celzi. Any other known race seemed unlikely
either.

What he did know was that its flight deck was full of Hunter vessels,
along with a couple of Corti design -- including a heavy scout! -- and
that he didn\'t see any sign of anyone anywhere. It might have been a
trap, but he hadn\'t seen any reason that such a trap might have
existed. What could be gained by leaving a lot of ships unattended on
the flight deck of the largest vessel he had ever seen?

He had judged that there were enough Hunter ships to carry about six
hundred of their number. A terrifying number to contemplate, although it
was hardly on par with the \'swarm of swarms\' that had been wreaking
bloody havoc on the galaxy.

He had decided to send in one hundred and fifty of his marines to take
control of the flight deck, and had been pleased when they had executed
the perfect boarding strategy. All ships had aligned for rapid
disembarkation of the troops, unlike the haphazard arrangement of the
other ships.

The troops had burst from their ship with precise timing, their training
evident in their execution, and had arranged themselves into tight
formations ready to take control of the flight deck and the ships parked
thereon.

That was when the explosions had started.

Two of the tactical teams had been shredded by whatever it was before
any response could be made. The ruined bodies of the marines crumpled to
the deck as the rest of the force scattered in unprofessional blind
panic.

"What is going on down there, mission commander?!" Hkrzitl had hissed
into the communicator link. "Give me an update! I have thirty men coming
up as dead!"

There was heavy breathing on the other end of the link. "Sir," replied
the mission commander, "I\'m not sure what\'s going on, but I have a
number of men down here who have suffered wounds from flying shrapnel."

"There shouldn\'t be anything down there that explodes enough to cause
shrapnel," Hkrzitl replied. A flight deck didn\'t normally have anything
on it that could actually explode, although power conduits could
definitely light up into lines of pure plasma if your engineers didn\'t
know what they were doing.

"I think something is shooting canisters of exploding shrapnel at us,
sir," came the reply. "I think it\'s some kind of machine."

"Automated defenses?!" Hkrzitl asked. That sort of thing was uncommon,
there was always the possibility of them being hacked and turned against
the defenders, and it would be a hassle to have to take a vessel of this
size with the potential number of automated defenses it could hold.
"Stand by, I\'ll get Cyber--Support to assist you."

⁂

**Zhadersil Flight Deck**

To Mission Commander Utl it seemed as though they\'d been taking cover
from the robot for (hours), although it had only been a handful of
(minutes). He\'d given orders to avoid its firing arc, to hide behind
the ships on the flight deck to stay alive until Cyber--Support could
switch off the defense systems.

And if that didn\'t happen, Utl wouldn\'t hesitate on getting his men
out of this meat--grinder. They weren\'t land--troops, they were
marines, and marines actually knew how to fight.

He had been watching the robot crawl around through a hover cam that
flew high enough that it had no chance at being shot down. That let him
know where to move, to tell his men where to move, and it let the Ship
Master bear witness to what his men were going through.

The robot stopped moving.

His communication link lit up again. "Cyber--Support tell me they
disabled it, Mission Commander," said Ship Master Hkrzitl. "They tell me
whatever system that ship is running, however, is entirely unlike
anything they\'ve ever seen before. I urge caution."

"Is there anything else down here I need to be worried about, Sir?" Utl
asked bitterly. "Before I lose another thirty men?"

"Scans show only the ships you see, and a pair of heavy plasma cutters."
the Ship Master responded testily. "And watch your tone, soldier!"

Utl scowled as he deactivated the link, and was bad--tempered as he
called his men together to start investigating ships for hidden enemies.
At least the ones he could see were all open for entry, and one Corti
styled vessel even had a big hole cut in its side.

He wished he had more men, or even that he still had the thirty that had
been killed before they knew what was happening to them. Some truly
twisted mind had come up with that kind of weapon, and while Utl
couldn\'t help but admire its effectiveness -- all of the men who
weren\'t injured and badly shaken were obviously very nervous -- he
would still have shot the person responsible for its creation if he
could.

"That\'s strange," said his second, Prtl. She was pointing at the heavy
plasma cutters. They were obviously originally of Hunter design, a
realisation that made Utl\'s fur prickle, but they had been heavily
modified with the addition of a steel box where the driver was supposed
to sit.

After the robot that had shot shrapnel exploders, Utl didn\'t like the
look of those cutters at all. They spoke of the same demented mind at
work.

"Stay away from those," he instructed Prtl.

And that was when the two cutters came to life.

⁂

**Agvidl, Celzi Light Cruiser: Command Deck**

As near as Hrkzitl could tell, all of his marines had been set on fire
as a billowing cloud of scorching plasma had flowed across the flight
deck, emitted by two malfunctioning plasma cutters.

He also guessed that their horrific screams would haunt him for the rest
of his life. He sat in his command chair, considering his next move. The
answer was not coming easily to him.

That\'s when the communication console came to life. Somebody was trying
to contact him from one of the ships down there. A Corti vessel, from
the looks of it.

He patched it through, hoping that maybe someone had survived. Instead
he was greeted with the first human face he had ever had the misfortune
to see outside of the information and news networks.

"A human!" he growled angrily. "You are a human!"

"Guilty as charged, mate," replied the savage creature, almost candidly.
It was like he wasn\'t taking this seriously at all!

"Why are you on that vessel!?" Hrkzitl demanded. "Why did you kill my
crew?!"

"This is my ship, mate," the human said factually, although as far as
Hrkzitl knew no humans had ever built a ship and certainly not one so
large.

"Liar!" Hrkzitl spat. "You have stolen that ship! You have stolen all of
those ships!"

"Yeah I did," admitted the human. "I killed about a thousand Hunters
personally, took these other ships from Corti soldiers, and today I blew
a hole straight through a Dominion cruiser. Now I\'ve just killed your
little invasion, I thought I\'d see if I could convince you to go away."

Hrkzitl wanted to call the human a liar again, but most of those claims
were fairly well substantiated by the fact that the ships he was talking
about were in plain view.

"You killed my men," Hrkzitl told the human. "Why would I simply leave
after that? I am in command of an entire light cruiser and within
moments I could turn its guns on you!"

"Well, mate," said the human slowly, clearly trying to be intimidating,
"I guess there we might have a problem. Do you know what cosmic rays
are?"

Hrkzitl paused for a moment. "I know a little," he lied.

"They\'re a type of radiation that goes through anything, mate," the
human explained, "hull, shields, flesh... it doesn\'t matter. Except
you\'ll feel real fucking poorly if you get a serious dose."

Hrkzitl looked at his tech officer, who simply nodded with the kind of
grim expression that confirmed that what the human had just said was
entirely true.

He turned back to the communications console. "You\'re saying you have a
weapon capable of producing these?"

"Mate," the human told him, "I have more than just that, but right now
I\'m trying to fix all manner of bullshit and I don\'t have the fucking
time to deal with yours. Pull your fucking head in or I\'ll come over
there and shove it up your--"

"TRY IT!" Hrkzitl snarled, despite himself. "You think your species is
so dangerous that you can\'t die? I WILL DESTROY YOU! ALL GUNS, FIRE ON
TARGET VESSEL!"

The human stared at him with such a troublesomely cold, dark intensity
that Hrkzitl was glad that he was the only one watching him. A shudder
seemed to go through the entire ship.

"Ship Master," ventured the weapons tech, clearly discomforted by
Hrkzitl\'s outburst. "Our weapons are no longer responding."

"Least of your fucking worries," the human said, the link still active.
"Mate."

⁂

**Endless Sequence Medical Ward, aboard the Zhadersil**

"You," the human male had said, pointing at Grnzk. "You\'re coming with
me! Your mate here gets to keep working on Jen."

"Where are you taking me?" Grnzk demanded. "And why?"

"Why?" the human male asked, as though the question was for some reason
baffling. "To make sure your mate here doesn\'t do anything stupid. You
and I are going to murder those fuckers."

"They have a cruiser!" Grnzk protested, even as he was dragged from the
room. "We can\'t go up against that without something *better than a
cruiser*."

"I\'ve just set fire to a small army and used flying bombs to take out
all of their ship guns," the human male told him. "What is so fucking
difficult to comprehend about this situation?"

Grnzk was forced to accept that argument. He\'d been listening to the
screams of burning men, to the desperate, crazed rant of the enemy
commander, and he couldn\'t recall anyone else being able to
single--handedly elicit that sort of reaction.

Add to that the fact that as that had all been going on the human had
been baring his teeth in some kind of mad, evil joy, and Grnzk found he
was unprepared to do anything that might bring him into direct
confrontation with the psychotic creature. Destroying a Celzi light
cruiser seemed relatively tame by comparison.

He noticed that the human was dragging him through the scorched corpses
of the landing party towards the ships that they had come in. Beyond the
edge of the flight deck he could see the bulky form of the light carrier
lit up with its running lights. "Don\'t tell me you\'re going to try and
board them!" he cried, "even a human can\'t fight that many troops at
once!"

"You\'re not wrong," the human male agreed. "I just thought they might
like their property back. I had some luck with this tactic earlier,
you\'ll remember?"

"You\'re going to shoot their landing ships at them?!" Grznk asked, glad
at least that this time he would not be on the receiving end of the
tactic. It would probably work, there was no reason for the Celzi to
expect this sort of tactic to be used against them out here.

"I am," said the human male, its evil grin returning. "Do you think all
three will do the trick?"

Grznk hesitating, assessing the situation further. "I doubt it will
wholly destroy them, but I doubt they\'ll be in any condition to
continue the fight."

"Where are the reactor and command decks located on that light cruiser?"
the human male asked.

"But you said you weren\'t boarding..." Grznk began, then looked at what
the human was entering into the console. "Oh... well, the configuration
is essentially the same as the vessel I was on before."

"Set the coordinates on this one for the deck," the human male ordered
him. "The next one will be the reactor. Dealer\'s choice for the third
one. We\'ll set them all to launch at the same time."

"I suggest that you target their life support," Grznk said, "instead of
whatever \'Dealer\'s Choice\' is."

"Good plan," the human male said approvingly.

Grznk wasn\'t sure he liked this human approving of anything he did, but
right now his thoughts were focused on surviving the assault the Celzi
were undoubtedly about to launch. "Let\'s just get this done."

⁂

**Agvidl, Celzi Light Cruiser: Command Deck**

"Ship Master," the sensor tech said, calling Hrkzitl\'s attention. "The
troop landers are returning."

Hrkzitl immediately gave the tech his full attention. "I was under the
impression that the marines were all dead."

"Nobody is on those ships, sir," the tech replied. "I\'ve already
scanned them, and they have strange bearings."

"Define \'strange\'," Hrkzitl ordered him. He wasn\'t in the mood to
play games. He already had techs setting about repairing the weapons the
human had managed to disable -- with more explosives, no less -- and it
would only be a matter of time before he was able to kill that savage
monster.

"They\'re not on a trajectory for the docks," the tech said.

"A ploy to try and distract us so they can escape then?" Hrkzitl
suggested. "The human is cunning!"

"Sir..." the tech said, paling, "they *are* on a trajectory for the
ship..."

"He\'s using them as weapons..." Hrkzitl realised. "EVADE!"

⁂

**Zhadersil Flight Deck**

Adrian and the Corti doctor stood and watched their handiwork from the
edge of the flight deck. The three transport ships had all gone out at
the same time, putting all their power into accelerating once their
trajectories were set, and quickly seemed tiny against the much larger
Celzi vessel.

"Looks like they\'re not entirely stupid," the Corti had said as the
ship began to turn. "They\'re trying to evade."

The transport vessels must have chosen that time to hit, as sizable
holes and clouds of fire, gas and debris shortly appeared at the
locations they\'d targeted. The running lights went out.

"Not fast enough," Adrian said flatly. He couldn\'t believe he\'d had to
use the same tactic twice in the same day, or that it had worked both
times. "I wonder if anybody survived that."

An explosion began to rock the Celzi vessel, starting from the reactor
and running through the inside in a red cloud of plasma. Jets of cooling
plasma burst from holes in the hull in huge plumes of faintly glowing
gas. The death of a starship was beautiful in its own way.

"I suspect not," the Corti replied grimly. "And I suggest that you
should increase power to the kinetic barrier here, unless you want us
all sprayed with debris."

Adrian sniffed, admiring his handiwork for a moment longer. "Yeah," he
said, "that sounds like a good idea."

"And you realise you\'re now at war with the Celzi as well?" the Corti
asked him, turning away from the sight of a fast--dying starship to look
at Adrian.

"Mate," said Adrian, "at this point I don\'t even give a fuck."
:::
