---
title: Robotic Death Machine
---

# Robotic Death Machine

\

\

::: chapter
"Right then," Adrian said, having taken a moment to gather his thoughts
after the most recent of events turned his plan into shit. "Trix, you
stay here and treat these two like they\'re the enemy. I don\'t want
them using the distraction to fuck us over."

Trycrur nodded, making sure the two Corti could both see the canister in
her hand. "Don\'t worry, I\'ll make sure they don\'t go anywhere."

Adrian nodded. "Good. Chir and Kermit are with me. I need to go and get
the prototype, do you think you two can hold it off?"

"No," grumbled Zripob, "but we\'ll manage it somehow if you\'re quick. I
haven\'t survived a dozen boardings to go down fighting a glorified
maintenance drone."

"Use this ship\'s hull for cover if you have to," Adrian told him. "The
flight deck is a fucking nightmare for infantry shit, so don\'t go
running out into the open."

"Anything else?" asked Chir.

Adrian pause for a moment. "Anything else you can tell me about it?" he
asked.

"Not much," Chir said, "just that it fired a hot, intense beam that
seems as hot as plasma."

"It scanned us too," Zripob volunteered. "Then it said \'no match
found\', but we were already withdrawing."

"What the fuck does that mean?" Adrian asked, then shrugged. "Doesn\'t
matter I guess. We\'ll have to deal with it either way. Everyone knows
what they\'re doing?"

Everyone, including the Corti, nodded mutely.

"Right then, let\'s get this show on the fucking road."

⁂

"This is insane," muttered Zripob as they peeked out over the barrier
they\'d put in place. It was really just a small cargo container that
had been out on the deck. A hover lifter had been conveniently on hand
for pushing it into a position of greater tactical use, and now they
both cowered behind it to the sound of heavy mechanical footsteps
growing ever closer.

"Unknown spacecraft configuration," the machine said, "marked for
destruction."

"Can it do that?" Chir asked, concerned.

"How should I know?!" Zripob demanded. "Let\'s see what we\'ve got to
fight it with."

"Two kinetic guns, and two fake grenades," Chir replied immediately.

Zripob frowned. "We\'re going to die, aren\'t we?

⁂

Adrian raced down the corridors towards the soldier\'s quarters. He\'d
never had cause to move this fast aboard the Zhadersil before, and he
discovered that the reduced gravity made it much harder than it had to
be. At walking pace he could compensate for the bounciness of movement,
but running made that impossible and he found himself kicking forward
off of the walls as often as the floor.

"How are they so short with such low gravity?" he grated. "Fuckers need
to eat their wheatbix."

The soldiers quarters were not the closest rooms to the flight deck,
those were reserved for the workshops and the workrooms of the Salvage
crew. They\'d all preferred having the Soldiers quartered some distance
away, apparently feeling that this made them safer rather than the
reverse. If time wasn\'t of the essence, or if he thought he could beat
an alien death robot with his bare fists, he might have sent Chir or
Zripob to get the weapon for him -- if they could lift it -- but death
robots might be a stretch for even a human.

"Finally," he said with a grunt as he flew into the quarters and kicked
his leg out against the opposing wall to stop himself.

He opened the door to his storage unit with so much force that he tore
it off its hinges, and he tossed the broken pieces aside with disgust he
reached in and took out both parts of the prototype.

⁂

Large holes had been punched through the container, and pools of
steaming polymer were hardening on the floor as they filled the air with
a gag--inducing stench.

"It\'s still advancing," Chir said needlessly. "At least it hasn\'t
managed to hit us yet."

"Our weapons do about as much to it as they do to the human!" Zripob
complained. "We\'re \'up shit creek\' as the human has said. How do you
suggest we keep this thing distracted?"

"Maybe you could run out there waving your arms about to distract it,"
Chir suggested.

"Are you serious?!" Zripob asked, completely aghast.

"Of course I\'m not serious!" Chir hissed. "I have no doubt that if
Adrian does not get back soon that we\'re going to die."

"Then if I\'m going to die, I\'m at least going to try to get a good
look at this thing!" Zripob replied. "I won\'t have it said that Zripob
died cowering like a Pondling."

"I\'ll look too!" Chir decided. "From the other side. Maybe it will have
to think about who to shoot and give us both enough time to live through
it."

"Right then," said Zripob. "On three."

"One," said Chir.

"Two," said Zripob.

"Three!" they said together, and rounded opposite sides of the container
with weapons firing. They each got enough time to get a good look at it
before fleeing back into cover.

"I see we both survived," Chir said, although he could have been happier
about the situation.

"I\'ve never seen anything like that," Zripob said, shaken. "I think it
was mostly steel... and I think its eyes were glowing."

"It was made to look like something dangerous," mused Chir. After his
experience with the reptiles on the planet the mere appearance of such
things seemed less unnerving. "A reptilian predator of some kind. Long
neck, like a Rrrrtktktkp\'ch, but I could see its teeth even from here."

"Sharp, but I doubt it needs them for eating," Zripob replied. "Bipedal,
but with a tail. Maybe for balance? Could be a weak point."

"Now if only we had the means to exploit it," Chir said grimly. "But I
guess that\'s what we keep a human here for."

⁂

Adrian glanced at the charge bar on the weapon he\'d affectionately
named the \'speartosser\' and grimaced. Not even half charged, with six
full power packs feeding it from a backpack he and Trixy had cobbled
together from leftover Wolfigator leather.

He\'d been surprised to discover that the kinetic guns simply pushed
their regular power production into the shot, rather than storing it in
a capacitor for a more powerful discharge, and when he\'d suggested it
she\'d taken the concept and run with it. As a result the lone weapon
that had all the lethality of a wet fart had become a powerful kinetic
cannon capable of punching explosive spearheads through half an inch of
steel, and hitting with the power of an angry horse when no rounds were
loaded.

But it needed time to charge when it had been turned off for a while,
and right now he\'d have just about given his left nut for the charge
bar to fill, because from the distance he was covering he\'d be well and
truly back onto the flight deck before that happened.

"Come on you little bastard," he grunted as he kicked open the door to
the flight deck to reveal a situation growing from bad to worse for his
squad mates. There was a lot of distance to cover, and not much time
before the metal man finally reached them. Hot raybeams shot through the
increasingly porous container, often missing the two of them by a
whisker. From the looks of it Chir and Kermit were shitting their
collective pants, but when they saw him they gave a relieved wave.

"Lasers is it?" Adrian said to himself. "That\'s not a good sign."

The metal man was approaching them, its laser firing three times before
what seemed to be a ten second cool--off period. If it had lasers, at
least it had shit lasers. He leapt atop a hover lifter and kicked the
floor repeatedly, gathering speed as he pushed the hover lifter beyond
all safe speeds towards the robot. The charger bar was almost full, and
with the hover lifter moving with inertia he knelt down on the platform
and took careful aim.

Then the robot turned towards him and he was hit by a bright blue
pulsing light.

⁂

Chir had watched in incredulity alongside Zripob as Adrian had sped
across the flight deck on a hover platform with the inertial brakes
turned off. He was wearing some sort of harness with a cable attached to
the long weapon in his hands, and seemed to be taking careful aim with
the intent to end the battle in a single shot.

Then the scan beam had hit him, and Adrian had shouted \'What the actual
fuck?\' before shouting an obscenity about something called a
\'dinosaur\' and another thing called a \'terminator\'. Chir thought
that both of these things sounded pretty dangerous, and if the robot was
both of these things rolled into one it was worse for all of them.

"The human is unnerved," Zripob noted, likewise worried.

Chir didn\'t respond; he was intently focused on what Adrian was doing.
Watching as the human jumped from the hover lifter\'s platform as the
robot powered up its laser. Listening as the robot announced that
genetic matches were detected. Staring as the robot did not immediately
fire.

Chir blinked. "What did it just say?"

"It said genetic matches were detected..." repeated Zripob, and both of
them stared at Adrian.

⁂

Adrian watched the hover lifter slam uselessly into the dinosaur
terminator. Dinonator? Termisaur? He\'d figure out a decent name for it
later, but it bore a freakish resemblance to the velociraptors of
Jurassic Park, although rendered in chrome. It hadn\'t shot at him yet,
so that was a good sign, but right now it seemed to be struggling with
some kind of mystery of its own.

"Percent chance native lifeform: 89%. Mammalian suborder." it said.

Adrian looked at the charging bar on his gun. Almost...

"Possible explanations: 46% Bio--engineered fauna..."

He kept looking. Almost......

"... 33% Evolved pet..."

He took careful aim. Almost...

"... 18% Livestock..."

"Fucking livestock?!" he spat angrily, and pulled the trigger as the
charge bar finally completed.

⁂

A blast like rolling thunder echoed through the flight deck as the
robot\'s metal head wrapped around an explosion before blowing apart in
pieces of shrapnel. Another clang sounded from a distant wall as a
shower of metal fragments hit it. Chir covered his ears until the
painful experience was over, and even then a high--pitched ringing still
remained.

"3% Other, Motherfucker!" Adrian shouted, walking over to the metal husk
that still whirred and tried to figure out how to move. He had the
cylinder that formed most of the length of the gun resting over one
shoulder, and must have been even more rocked by the explosion than Chir
because he swaggered as he walked.

Zripob, seeing that the danger had passed, or had at least reached a
point of tolerable dangerousness, indicated to Chir to follow him over
to join Adrian at the robot. What they found when they reached there was
an unimpressed looking human examining a long power cable, radiating an
expression that conveyed disgusted contempt.

"Am I seriously looking at a fucking extension lead?" he asked, looking
up at Chir and Zripob. "I was really hoping to use that gun, but if it
needs a power point then that\'s just fucking woeful, don\'t you
reckon?"

"It looks like the power actually goes into the robot," Chir said. "Then
it feeds into the gun."

Adrian sighed, looking down with shoulders sagging. "That\'s really just
the most disappointing thing I\'ve heard all day, Chir. Can\'t even
begin to tell you..."

"What did it mean by native life form?" Zripob asked. "When it scanned
the rest of us it said no match found."

"I couldn\'t really tell you," Adrian said with a shrug. "Did look a lot
like a dinosaur, though."

"Perhaps I may suggest an explanation," said Bekmer, and they whirled to
see him now standing behind them. He was holding a Kinetic gun on
Trycrur with one hand, and the fake grenade with the other. "And then
perhaps we could re--evaluate our earlier agreement? No need to
disagree, as Treoffa has the ship\'s weapons trained on all of you."
:::
