# S - By The Light
***Salvage***

---

**The Five--Fingers, Pirate Salvage Vessel, Far Reaches**

Keffa\'s crush was on her bed.

Keffa\'s crush was on her bed, and she was leaning over him, tending to
his wounded face, and his burned eyes. It was horrifying what a stun gun
could do to them, and upon seeing it she had resolved to avoid ever
getting into that state. He was certainly blind, there were no two ways
about it, but he seemed to be taking it as though it were almost some
sort of cosmic joke being played on him.

It was possible that her crush might have cracked.

He was tough, too. Tougher by far than anyone else she\'d ever met.
Water poured from his tear ducts, trying to moisten eyes that would
inevitably need to be replaced. It had to be agony, and yet when she\'d
offered him pain killers he\'d gently refused them.

"There\'s no point," he said. He was just that amazing.

It was a pity that this was not the sort of circumstance that led to the
wild sex in her dreams, but with the right bit of Corti medical
treatment surely he\'d be good as new and then who knew? He\'d feel
indebted to her, he\'d invite her out for a nice meal, and then...

She was really glad that he was too blind to see the complete redness in
her cheeks; pale skin did not do a very good job of disguising her more
embarrassing emotions.

"I\'m done with your dressings," she said softly, so gently that she
surprised herself. "You can just rest or sit or do whatever you like."

*Or do me, whatever you like.*

"Thanks Kefani," he said. He was as husky voiced as she had imagined,
although the accent was sharp and took a little getting used to.

"Call me Keffa," she offered. "Everybody else does."

"Then thank you, Keffa," he revised.

She almost melted. "You\'re welcome. Sorry about the eyes... I mean it
wasn\'t me, but sorry anyway..."

Keffa had heard of babbling. This appeared to be it.

"Don\'t worry about it, love," he said, with all the world--weariness
expected of someone who turned the galaxy upside down just by surviving.
Calling her \'love\' was certainly turning Keffa\'s galaxy upside down.
"Just the end of a very long day. I do intend to punch Darragh in the
face when I feel better, though. I\'d like him to know that."

She giggled. That was also pretty new; Keffa was not normally the sort
of girl who went into things like \'giggling\' or \'melting\' or
\'gushing\' or getting all flustered over a man. She hadn\'t gotten all
flustered over Darragh for example, but he was far more of a \'boy\'
than a man like Adrian.

"I\'ll be sure to tell him," she promised. Hell, she\'d punch Darragh in
the face *for* him if he wanted her to. She wondered if she should ask
if he wanted her to, then decided it was much more likely that he wanted
to feel the satisfaction of doing it himself. "Is there anything else I
can get you?"

Adrian seemed to think for a while, tilting his rugged head to the side
as he pondered. "Yeah, is my mate alright?"

"The Corti?" she asked, a little surprised that anybody would call a
Corti his friend, but that particular Corti did seem unusual compared to
the rest of them so maybe there had been something to it. "He\'s getting
treated by Darragh in the other room."

His face shifted subtly but she knew that did not please him. After the
stun gun incident she couldn\'t blame him, but the Corti had needed
medical attention and she was giving all her efforts to Adrian Saunders;
Darragh could deal with everything fucking else while she had this
moment.

"Sorry," she said, "I\'ll go make sure that he\'s alright."

"Thanks Keffa," he said, relaxing. "It\'s good to see that someone has
their head screwed on right."

---

There were three humans aboard this ship, which meant that Askit found
that there was at least one more than there actually needed to be, and
he was absolutely certain that that one was Darragh.

Askit did not like Darragh; aside from the fact that he had shot Adrian
in the face and seemed to have no idea what he was doing when it came to
rendering basic medical assistance, he also tended to moan a lot about
how bad his life was.

"If it\'s so terrible, why don\'t you just leave it?" Askit had
suggested, referring to Darragh\'s life more than the spaceship, but
Darragh seemed to take it as the latter.

"It\'s not *all* bad," Darragh conceded. "Even if Keffa *does* work me
like a dog at times."

"This dog is some sort of useless shit of a beast?" Askit asked, unable
to help himself. Darragh could kill him with a single strike, but Askit
wasn\'t afraid of Darragh as long as Darragh was afraid of Adrian, and
Askit had never seen someone more generally terrified of what Adrian
might do to them.

"No!" said Darragh angrily. "A dog is a cute and lovable animal,
they\'re used on farms to help with the animals."

"Sorry," Askit said, faking an apology. "I must have misunderstood."

"Yeah, well," Darragh replied, mellowing immediately, "it\'s better than
working on the docks, which isn\'t saying much."

"I can see your point," said Askit, and it was true; dock work was
increasingly performed by robots as stevedoring became a thing for
machines to do. Any place that used actual manual labour was not going
to stay that way for long, and everybody with any kind of sense would
find a new vocation.

"You know," Darragh began, and Askit could see he was about to launch
into a self--pity monologue, "when I left the dock work the first time,
I thought I was going to be helping Earth found a new colony. That\'s
when I met Jen--"

Askit stopped paying attention. Absolutely everything else had become
more interesting than this moping idiot, especially the woman who was
now entering the room and cutting Mister Sob--Story off in the middle of
what he was saying.

"A sight for sore eyes," he said cheerfully. "Can she be as charming as
she is timely?"

She stared at him, the usual reaction that people had when they were
meeting Askit for the first time. He left an impression on people,
although the largest one was inevitably on their bank accounts. He\'d be
stealing everything Darragh owned at the first chance he got, although
he guessed it wouldn\'t be much.

"You\'re a weird one, Corti," she mused. "Darragh, go fly the ship."

Darragh looked confused. "But it\'s on auto--pilot..."

"Then go watch the ship fly itself, it\'s not that difficult," she said
more severely, and stood aside so that he could scramble out.

She turned back to Askit. "The best part is that this is *his* room."

"I like you," he decided. Her bank account just received a temporary
reprieve. "How may this injured, yet still marvellously talented Corti
be of service?"

"Adrian wanted me to check in with you," she said, "he was slightly
concerned about you being looked after by Darragh. Is everything...
alright?"

"I told him how to fix me," Askit informed her. "He was... adequately
helpful, even if he does mope."

"Well, he might have good reason for that," she admitted. "He was
involved in a fairly serious skirmish on some little world the pirates
held before they arrived in Carltopia."

Askit stared at her a moment, then he blinked. "There are several
aspects to that story that will require further explanation."

"As I understand it, some heavy military came in and hit them hard, and
Darragh was amongst those few who managed to claim victory," she said,
although she didn\'t sound as though she believed it much. Askit had no
trouble believing any of it with the exception of Darragh fighting back,
namely because people with serious fighting experience shouldn\'t
accidentally shoot a man in the face.

"And Carltopia?" Askit asked.

"An old asteroid base that a bunch of losers made their home. Apparently
one of the commanders took control of it by killing \'King Carl\', a
human who... well, he *abused* his position," she said, her distaste
making itself very suggestive. "They took over the base, and the name
has yet to be changed. I joined with them about two months ago."

"And that\'s where we\'re going now?" Askit asked. "To this...
Carltopia?"

"Eventually," she said, smiling at something Askit undoubtedly had no
idea about. "But we\'ve got a salvage run ahead of us first, so there\'s
plenty of time to get to know each other."

Askit thought about that. This human woman wasn\'t so bad, but then
there was Darragh. He didn\'t particularly want to experience the joy of
getting to know Darragh, he\'d stolen a spaceship from him once, and
later Darragh had shot Adrian in the face, and that was about all Askit
needed to know. "How much do you normally earn on a run like this?"

"I\'ve earned up to four thousand creds in *profit* on some of them,"
she said, clearly pleased with herself. "Better than most."

Askit locked eyes with her, and adopted a no--nonsense expression that
allowed for no interpretation other than complete seriousness. "I will
give you twenty thousand credits to take us directly to Carltopia," he
said, deciding that money was an excellent motivator in her case.

As it turned out it was.

---

**Carltopia, the Outer Cluster**

"Another fine haul!" Zripob exclaimed as he made his triumphant return.
The Hodgepodge had been further crewed with the addition of Carltopian
soldiers, which brought it up to about half of its full complement.
"Seven ships in total!"

Chir looked up from the maps he\'d been going over, a two dimensional
projection of the nearest five hundred light years. It was marked with a
number of yellow--green lines that indicated Celzi Alliance trade
routes, as well as red dots that showed where Hunters had been
encountered. The brightness of either showed how recently the pirates
had been to each one.

"Any cloaking emitters?" he asked. The project to conceal the entire
asteroid had come to a standstill without them, and it was no good just
turning most of it invisible.

Zripob croaked irritably. "No, no cloaking emitters. The Hunters seem to
have withdrawn from our hunting grounds. I *do* bring reactors, kinetics
and supplies. You might remember we also need those?"

Chir felt his ears threaten to flatten as they had when he\'d been
chastised as a cub, but he made a conscious effort to avoid such a
display now.

"I apologize," he said. "There are many demands on my patience these
days, and I should not have directed my lack of it at you."

Zripob grunted as he sat down heavily into one of the war room\'s many
oversized chairs; this had once been King Carl\'s chamber of
\'delights\', a place that only proved how far beyond redemption the oaf
king had been, and it had quickly been scrubbed clean and put to better
purpose. "You are forgiven," he replied. "I\'m well aware of what I
handed over to you in this place and I know that I couldn\'t have done
the job half as well."

Chir bowed his head gratefully. "Have you heard any news about...
anything?"

"None," Zripob reported. "But the humans continue their enterprise on
Cimbrean. As you know, I like to make my return through that area and it
looks as though they\'ve made significant progress."

"Do you think Darragh would be better off with them?" Chir asked. The
human had served well on Cimbrean during the resistance, but it seemed
the experience had cost him part of his mind. The arrival of Kefani Keil
had seemed like fate, and Chir had packed him off with her in the hope
she\'d know what to do with him, because nobody else seemed to have any
idea.

"I don\'t know what will make him better off," Zripob said hopelessly.
"But he might be happier if we release him amongst his own kind. He can
frolic through forests or whatever it is humans do when they\'re not
killing everything."

Chir rebuked him on that. "You\'re being unkind, Jen at least was never
so violent, and quite frankly I doubt Darragh is all that inclined
towards violence. He certainly got along well enough when he was working
amongst all those other species."

"Fair point, Chir," Zripob conceded. "Not that I wouldn\'t like to see
Adrian again, if he\'s even still alive--"

"Assuming anything\'s been able to kill him," Chir interjected.

"But it certainly makes things more straightforward when there aren\'t
humans making a mess of everything," Zripob finished, looking only
slightly annoyed at the interruption. "And yes, assuming anything\'s
been able to kill him."

Chir stepped over to the window. This room was amongst the higher in the
tower, and looked out towards a cavernous wall which provided absolutely
no kind of view. But he was looking beyond that wall, beyond it and to
the stars, knowing that somewhere out there were his human friends.

"I wonder if we *will* ever see them again," he said, more to himself
than Zripob, although the Chehnasho soldier gave an acknowledging grunt.

"It\'s a big galaxy," Zripob replied. "But I suppose anything is
possible."

---

**The Five--Fingers, Pirate Salvage Vessel, Far Reaches**

There was a certain amount of helplessness in being blind that Adrian
did not enjoy. Also on his list of things that he did not enjoy was the
inability to see, coupled with the continual stinging pain and itching.
It had been two days and his sight showed no sign of coming back, and
Adrian found himself becoming a little bit worried.

"You\'re looking well," Askit told him as he came for his first visit of
the day. Adrian doubted that an hour went by without the little Corti
coming to see how he was doing, and he was even more routine in that
respect than the eager--to--please Keffa.

"I wouldn\'t fucking know," Adrian replied bitterly. "All I\'ve got is
pain and itching, although as of this morning there\'s also a little
light mixed in with it."

"That can\'t be a bad sign," Askit said, "and the burns on your skin are
gone, surely you can feel that? Oh, and I\'m mending well, thank you for
your interest."

"Sorry, mate," Adrian apologised. "The pain... it just makes it hard to
think straight. How far out from \'Carltopia\' are we?"

He\'d been filled in on all the details of what had been occurring while
he and Askit put life on pause, and a lot of it had been quite
surprising. His old companions had secured an asteroid base from which
their pirating operation had recommenced, and apparently this had
involved killing somebody named King Carl. From what he\'d learned from
Keffa, this King Carl had been what Adrian would usually have like to
have called \'fucked in the head\', but Kaffa seemed like a nice sort of
girl and he had settled with \'total nutcase\'.

"They say about two days, if that means anything to you," Askit replied.
"I\'ve been thinking about other names for the place."

"They\'re not calling it Askitania," Adrian told him directly, "and
they\'re not going to name it after you."

"You don\'t know that," Askit replied defensively, although he didn\'t
sound like he really meant it, "and I was thinking *Askitoria* sounded
much better."

Adrian began to laugh. That was something that Askit persistently seemed
to be attempting to get him to do. It hurt like hell when his body shook
with laughter, but he was glad for the feel of it in spite of the pain,
and he was getting good at ignoring it. Lately life had seemed intent on
bringing his pain tolerance to an all--time high.

"You know, it\'s possible they won\'t grow back," Askit said, far more
seriously now. This had been a possibility in Adrian\'s mind for some
time, but Askit had not broached the subject before now and Adrian
hadn\'t wanted to think about it. "But the Corti have been abducting
your kind for a long time. There\'ll be prosthetics out there, and we
could find some."

"Fucking robo--eyes," Adrian said in way of reply. He didn\'t like the
idea of it, and thought it had been bad enough to get the implants he
already had. "That\'s a bit fucking creepy, mate."

"A man with burned out eyeballs has just told me that *prosthetics* are
creepy," Askit stated to the universe in general. "If only there was a
prosthetic sense of perspective, perhaps we could give him that as
well!"

"I\'m good at healing," said Adrian. "Fucking awesome at it, actually,
and I\'m hoping that that will be enough."

"And if it\'s not?" Askit asked more directly.

Adrian grimaced. "If it\'s not... if they don\'t heal, we\'ll look into
robo--eyes."

"I\'ve spoken with Keffa about this already," Askit told him, "and--"

"You shouldn\'t have done that," Adrian rebuked. "This is my decision,
and--"

"And we\'re on *her* ship, going to *her* base, to deal with *her*
people," Askit replied sharply. "*Askitoria* has stolen some very good
medical facilities, and *Askitoria* even has its very own Corti doctor
servicing its needs. Apparently he came to *Askitoria* with the pirates,
and has been with them for some time."

"Stop saying *Askitoria*," Adrian told him, although he was beginning to
find it slightly hilarious to hear. "If you think that name is
happening, you\'re in for a disappointment."

"Well, I\'m hoping that the fine citizens of *Askitoria* disagree,"
Askit said, delivering one last use of the name. "But that\'s enough
conversation for now, because it looks like *somebody* needs his rest."

That was the beginning of a familiar script by now, one that had started
the first time Askit had come to see him and had been revisited so many
times that it had gone so far past being amusing that it had become a
little bit hilarious again.

Adrian delivered his line. "But I\'m already resting."

"I was talking about me," Askit finished, and left the room in his usual
manner. That was probably the hundredth time they\'d had that exchange,
but it seemed like a thing fixed in place between them.

That was usually how it got with the people who\'d gone through ten
rivers of shit with you and made it out alive. You built little routines
and traditions that kept everyone playing along, and maybe it let people
remember all of the silver linings rather than the fucked up clouds.
With the exception of Jen, it\'d been a long time since Adrian had seen
a silver lining in much of anything.

He was seeing one now, and he had to admit... it felt kind of good.

---

"I need to talk to you both about something," Askit said as he
re--entered the main deck area, although he primarily meant Keffa as she
was the one in charge around here.

Keffa swivelled around on her chair to look at him. "You should be in
bed, but if you\'re worried about how far out of Carltopia we are it
should only be--"

"You can\'t tell them who we are," he interrupted, delivering the
statement with such certainty that it now had their full attention. "For
our sake, and for yours, everybody must continue to believe we\'re
dead."

"But Adrian has friends there," replied Darragh in confusion. "They\'ll
want to know he\'s alive, and I\'m not sure how we can avoid that
knowledge getting around."

"We\'ve used false--names before," Askit said, taking a seat to get more
comfortable, and giving himself an armrest to rest his broken arm.
"We\'ll use them again. I will be blunt, there are people who probably
want us dead, and they\'re willing to take great measures to make that
happen. An entire *Celzi Fleet* was destroyed in the attempt, just
because we were aboard one of the ships."

"That was six months ago," Keffa said, the disbelief in her eyes giving
way to surprise. "You\'ve been in stasis for that long, there\'s no way
you could know about that."

"Unless they were there," Darragh added, and proceeded to look very
concerned. "How did you survive something like that?! I heard there was
debris everywhere!"

Telling them that it was mostly a mixture of dumb luck and dumber luck
was probably not going to be the sort of response that Askit needed them
to hear. He decided to go with something a touch more impressive.
"We\'re just that good."

"I don\'t see a problem with people thinking you\'re dead," Keffa
decided. "Only a problem in making sure nobody recognises either of
you."

"My face isn\'t on a statue," Askit replied dryly. "I doubt you\'ll have
problems with *me*, and fortunately Darragh has injured Adrian\'s face
so badly that nobody will recognise him if we cover his body with a
sheet."

"You want us to put him in a dress?" Darragh asked, sounding almost
affronted by the idea. "A dress?!"

"What\'s the problem with that?" Keffa asked. "I like dresses, but
they\'re not that useful when you\'re working with hardware."

Darragh looked at her as if she were completely mad. "Men aren\'t
supposed to wear dresses! They should wear trousers, or shorts on a day
where the weather is quite warm."

Askit cleared his throat loudly, neatly interrupting the pointless
disagreement. "Earth clothing aside, you now understand the stakes. When
you contact the base, use another set of names for us."

"You were using pig--latin last time we found you," Darragh recalled,
surprising Askit with the sharpness of his mind. "Perhaps you could use
the same ones?"

"No," Askit said. "They\'ll know to look like that. I was thinking of
reversing the process, making me \'Taski\', and Adrian \'Nadria\'."

They both stared at him, and shared a glance with each other that was
somewhat unsettling.

"You realise," Darragh said slowly, "that those are both female sounding
names?"

"But if we put you *both* in dresses," Keffa said with a mad kind of
grin Askit had normally only seen in Adrian, "then this terrible plan
might even work."

---

**Carltopia, the Outer Cluster**

"You know you\'ve hit rock bottom when you\'re a blind man dressing up
as a woman so that people you\'ve never met in a place you\'ve never
been don\'t realise who you are," Adrian remarked as he was led from the
Five--Fingers. Keffa was guiding him along, holding his hand and staying
by his side to keep him from going in the wrong direction, or from
falling off the gangway that connected ship and base, but aside from
that he was not in any kind of a good way.

"Try being a Corti in a dress," Askit quietly replied, sounding as
though he was loathing every second of it. "People are staring at me
just for *that*. I told you all that Corti don\'t wear clothes."

"Yeah, but see how well it matches your eyes," Darragh observed, failing
to suppress his amusement. "And look at it this way, you\'re probably
the galaxy\'s first cross--dressing alien."

That didn\'t seem to do much to placate the little Corti. "I look like
an idiot."

"You look fine," Keffa said wearily; she seemed to have a low tolerance
for whining, and that explained why she got along so poorly with
Darragh. The boy seemed to take every chance he got to complain about
one thing or another, but the last time Adrian had met him he hadn\'t
been anywhere near as bad. He supposed it might be that he\'d come out
from Cimbrean with a piece of his soul missing, and if that was the case
there wasn\'t much that could be done for him besides hoping it would
heal over.

Adrian couldn\'t help but join in, payback for all the sarcastic jibes
the little Corti had sent his way. "I bet you look beautiful."

"Yes," Askit replied dryly, "truly I am the pinnacle of human
attractiveness. Would you like some pointers? My first tip is--"

"Wear plenty of makeup?" Darragh suggested, rather wittily cutting him
off. Adrian and Keffa both laughed, which gained the Irishman a few
points in his favour; if he kept it up, Adrian might even pull the punch
he owed him.

"I see you\'re already well informed," Askit shot back. "Perhaps you
should have worn a dress as well? We could have all worn dresses!"

"I don\'t like wearing dresses," Keffa replied. "When I have to wear
clothes it\'s usually for protection."

"When you have to wear clothes?" repeated Adrian and Darragh as one.
Adrian didn\'t know what Keffa looked like but from the strangled tone
in Darragh\'s voice it probably wasn\'t half bad.

"Finally a voice of reason," Askit approved. "There\'s absolutely no
need for clothing unless you\'re somewhere dangerous or unpleasant. Just
because your planet fits both of those criteria doesn\'t mean that you
need to go forcing your sensitivities on the rest of the galaxy, or on
me in particular!"

"What about..." Adrian started, trailing off. He really wasn\'t sure
where he was going with that, he\'d just wanted to say something to try
to distract himself from the fact that an apparently attractive nudist
was holding his hand and pressing her body now uncomfortably close to
his.

He really didn\'t have any kind of social compass for this situation, so
he floundered. Fortunately he was saved by the sudden arrival at their
destination, alerted to the transition from \'outside\' to \'inside\' --
who could really define which was which inside an asteroid? -- by the
change in what was underneath his feet. Where it had previously been
smooth stone, it now felt like metal tiles.

"Here we are at last," Keffa announced, slowing Adrian to a stop
stepping away from him. "Doctor Gruznik is the only real doctor on the
base, but he\'s a Corti and he\'s pretty good at what he does, aren\'t
you, Doc--"

She stopped as a sound of clattering equipment informed Adrian that
something had fallen, but his sense of problems on an impending
collision with his life told him that somebody had dropped something in
surprise.

"Adrian Saunders..." said a voice that seemed halfway familiar, and that
was enough to tell him that his pessimism had been correct. "Why is it
always Adrian Saunders?"

---

Doctor Grznk was not having a very good day. It was true that he had
gone along with his orders to keep an eye on the pirates, but everyone
important knew that and as a result he was excluded from doing anything
important or particularly difficult.

Unimportant and easy; that was how he liked it.

Adrian Saunders was not amongst those things that were unimportant. He
was alive for starters, a surprising turn of events that was set against
the prevailing opinion held by everyone who knew the name. He was alive,
apparently blind, and accompanied by an injured Corti wearing a black
sheet and looking about as displeased by this fact as it was possible to
get.

Somehow the day had only gotten worse from there.

Grznk knew humans pretty well, or at least he thought he did after
having put through all manner of unfortunate experiences just to keep an
eye on some of them. He had come to know them as cunning, powerful, and
often unpredictable, and all that lack of stability had made him long
for another member of his own kind.

This Corti had made that feeling go away. Forever.

"Don\'t bother with me," the Corti had said. He was named Askit from
what Grznk had divined, as he\'d certainly not bothered with an
introduction, and had proceeded to individually threaten every one of
Grznk\'s orifices with a sharp stick if he did anything other than fix
the human.

Keffa and Darragh, on the other hand, had immediately closed his clinic
without consulting him, and had then proceeded to give him a rushed
explanation about lightning guns and eyeballs, and Grznk had quietly
listened to everything they had to say because that was the sort of
thing you did when you thought you were being held hostage.

"You\'re Grizzles," Adrian surmised from the chatter, and crouched down
near where Grznk was. "I\'m surprised you\'re still with the group here.
No additional orders yet?"

"Nothing but an order to observe," Grznk replied, somewhat confused by
the fact that the man who had previously abducted him was behaving with
the most civility of them all. "I get the feeling that *today\'s* report
is going to cause a considerable fuss."

"What are you talking about?" Askit asked. "What orders?"

"Grizzles here was ordered by the Corti Directorate to report back on
everything he sees," Adrian explained, turning to face the direction he
inaccurately thought the other Corti was in. "He told everybody that
much so that he would never be in a position where I\'d have to kill
him."

"Then why have we come to see *him*?" Askit demanded angrily. "He\'ll
report we\'re still alive!"

Adrian turned back to face in Grznk\'s direction again. "He\'s right
that we can\'t afford that, Doc. You can\'t either. You can\'t tell them
anything about us."

Grznk hesitated, but he was already willing to at least listen, even if
he chose not to do as they said. He sighed in resignation. "I will need
a very satisfactory explanation before I go against the orders of the
Directorate."

"Because if you don\'t, it\'s very likely that an army will come here
and try to kill absolutely everybody," Adrian explained. "They want me
and Askit dead, but they think they\'ve managed it. And if case that\'s
not enough, well... I\'d like you to get me seeing again, Doc, but if
you don\'t agree to this I\'m going to have to kill you."

There was something cold in his calm words that made Grznk believe that
whether he wanted to or not, or whether he felt gratitude or not, Adrian
would kill him in a heartbeat.

It was a rather terrifying understanding.

"Well," Grznk replied uncomfortably. "You certainly make a compelling
argument."

"Sorry, Grizzles," Adrian Saunders apologised, an act that Grznk had not
even be sure the human had been capable of, "but I can\'t let everybody
on this asteroid die just because you wanted to follow orders."

"Well then," Grnzk said, "you can stop calling me \'Grizzles\' and get
onto the examination table, and I won\'t do anything that will get
everybody -- including myself -- killed."

He turned to Keffa and Darragh. "Make yourselves *useful* and help this
man find the examination table while I prepare."

He looked towards the other Corti, who had seemed to have taken up
position in the waiting area. He was sitting on a seat and was lost in
whatever he was doing on his datapad; Grznk decided to simply leave him
be.

There wasn\'t much that he actually required to perform a standard
examination -- the examination table was equipped with medical systems
capable of doing most of the diagnosis -- but Grznk was a professional
and ensured he maintained a clean area. His patient may be a human and
therefore capable of annihilating every bacteria in the galactic
catalogue with his singularity engine of an immune system, but Grznk
couldn\'t consider himself a doctor if he wasn\'t going to follow
accepted procedures.

"This is not going to hurt," he informed his patient as he took up
position by Adrian\'s head. "I\'m running a scanner sweep of the damaged
areas, and you may feel a slight pressure. Tell me if it begins to
hurt."

He doubted the human would even really feel it, but Grznk was not going
to put himself into a position where he was accused of not warning
somebody of certain risks. Especially not when his accusers would be
more than capable of ripping off all of his limbs and inserting them in
new and interesting places.

The medical scanner display filled with output, most of it completely
incomprehensible jargon to anybody who hadn\'t spent years training in
medicine. It was Grznk\'s job to interpret that jargon so that anyone,
even humans, could understand it.

"I\'m detecting high levels of your... condition," he said, not willing
to go into too much detail if the other humans did not know the story.
"Tissue layers are heavily suffused and appear to be recently healed.
Have you suffered any trauma recently?"

"I was blasted out of a spaceship in an explosive decompression," Adrian
replied. "And a black hole nearly ate me."

Grznk sighed, looking up at the rather surprised and confused
expressions of the humans standing nearby. He almost smiled at their
apparent ignorance. "That would potentially account for it."

There wasn\'t much point questioning that sort of thing on the grounds
of it being too unlikely to be true. This was the man who had blown a
hole in a military starship, parked a ship inside of it, and abducted
him while the crew completely failed to respond. That he\'d survived the
things he\'d just mentioned was merely something interesting.

"I\'m focusing on your eyes now," Grznk said, adjusting the scanners.
High levels of Cruezzir again appeared, this time mixed in with
significant amounts of a mucus secretion. "Strange..."

"What is it?" Keffa asked, stepping closer but retreating as Grznk gave
her a warning look. It amused him that in here their roles seemed so
very reversed, but right now he wasn\'t in a mood to toy with her.

"It\'s *strange*," he repeated. "I\'ll need to pull away the cloth,
Adrian."

"I understand," Adrian replied, gritting his teeth as if he expected
some dreadful pain. Maybe he was right to do so, but when Grznk pulled
away the gauze it didn\'t appear to cause the human any more distress
than he was already in.

The eyes beneath them were off--white, covered by a thick membrane slick
with the mucus--Cruezzir secretion. "Very strange," he said, and took a
small sample into the micro--probe he kept ready for taking organic
samples for deep analysis. It only returned information stating what he
already knew it to be.

"I doubt this is natural," he murmured so that only Adrian could hear.
"Your body has raised a protective membrane across both of your eyes.
Can you see anything if I shine a light?"

He used a small light that changed colours and passed it in front of
Adrian\'s eyes. Thus far he was keeping the others from seeing what
he\'d found, but this might raise some questions. "I\'m testing for
light perception," he told them as explanation. It wasn\'t exactly
untrue, after all.

"Red, blue, yellow, green, white, red again," Adrian said as the light
flashed through red, blue, yellow, green, white and infrared.

"Good," said Grznk, putting the small tool away. "There\'s a good chance
your eyes are healing."

That seemed to relieve the human, but Grznk hadn\'t yet given a full
diagnosis. "Don\'t feel too relieved," he said, "I did not say that they
are healing *properly*. To know that I would need to run more tests."

Adrian Saunders stopped being relieved, swapping the peaceful expression
for an unsettled frown. Grznk couldn\'t blame him for that, there was
still every chance that the human would need replacement eyes --
something even Corti science had not yet fully developed for humans --
and as he had almost certainly been abducted by Corti researchers any
further tests would undoubtedly stir up unpleasant memories.

"What kind of tests?" Adrian asked warily, a slight edge of fear in his
voice.

"The sort where you should be anaesthetised," Grznk replied, knowing
full well that this was effectively impossible in this particular
patient\'s case.

"Those sorts of drugs don\'t work on me anymore," Adrian replied,
sounding every bit as worried as he should be. He knew just as Grznk did
that what was coming wasn\'t going to be pleasant.

"I know," Grznk said. "They will hurt. Do you want to proceed?"

Adrian was quiet for a while, and for a moment Grznk began to think that
he\'d make the sane decision and decline. It might be a matter of days
before he\'d find out anyway, but it could also be much much longer.

"Seems I\'m in a fucking hurry to find out," Adrian said, his jaw set in
a fierce determination. "Let\'s do this."

---

Askit focused on the work and not the screams of pain coming from the
operating theater. The doctor was either very helpful, or he was very
dead, and the two humans currently tasked with restraining the patient
would see that justice was served. That wasn\'t to say he wasn\'t
worried or disturbed, but he had detached himself from his emotions in
order to make good use of his time there.

The doctor doctored and the hacker hacked.

Askit had recalled what Hrbrd had told him before his... misadventure.
There had been an agent of his amongst the pirates, and now that he\'d
met with Grznk he simply had to make sure that that was the entirety of
what was happening here. He didn\'t trust his luck enough to go on
assumptions or hope.

It had been brilliant in a way for Grznk to have told everyone what he
was doing. It had initially prevented his masters from using him in a
way that could get him killed by ensuring that nobody would ever put him
in a position where he could be that useful.

It was a small act of rebellion and marked the doctor as an unwilling
participant in the venture, but that would do no good if the master was
truly the Directorate.

A particularly loud scream startled him, and he glanced up to hear
Darragh\'s lamentation about his broken nose. Keffa was unsympathetic
and criticized him for not holding on properly.

Askit turned back to his work. At first glance from his received
messages -- unexpectedly unencrypted in another small rebellion -- the
Directorate had had nothing to do with his orders. It was almost
completely certain that the one giving the orders had been Hrbrd, and
both the style and tone of the messages had matched those in the few
regarding himself that Askit had lifted from the dead Councilor\'s
account when he\'d first been brought into the group on Cavaras.

That was the style of all of the messages from Grznk\'s master, but the
messages had not stopped when Hrbrd had been forced to flee.

And they hadn\'t stopped when he was dead!

Now he was interrupted by a roar of agony louder than anything Askit had
ever heard; so loud that he wondered whether a crowd would be gathering
outside. It was followed by a weak wailing that he thought must be Keffa
until he heard her -- with unusual tenderness -- suggest that Darragh
\'keep his junk out of punching distance.\'

Askit couldn\'t imagine why punching garbage would be so undesirable, or
elicit such sympathy, except that maybe it was very unhygienic in an
operating theater.

Once again he returned to his work. The messages from Grznk\'s masters
had not grown any bolder however, and so it appeared that the doctor was
merely filling the role of an observer. Askit thought that was almost
entirely certain to change if the Doctor was to let anyone know that he
and Adrian were still alive.

It would be wise to ensure that that did not happen. If that happened
there would be every chance of another Hierarchy member taking revenge
-- Thirteen himself was probably still out there somewhere -- and it
wasn\'t possible to get lucky every time. Not when they\'d barely been
lucky enough twice already.

Regardless of what Adrian did, Askit would have to stay on the base
until he was could be sure that they weren\'t going to be sold out.
Programs would need to be broken, and to be rewritten, before he could
be satisfied enough to leave Grznk unsupervised.

"Askit!" came Keffa\'s call, getting his attention for a final time. "I
think you should come in here..."

That made him sigh. He already knew it was just going to be more
trouble, just more bad news heaped on top of an already full plate of
shit, and yet he was still going to go.

"Well," he said to himself, "what are friends for?"


