# S - Business Concerns
***Salvage***

---

**Makeshift Command Room, Cimbrean Palace**

"It\'s getting harder to find decent targets," Zripob reported. "A
larger number of freighters are engaging the assistance of proper
escorts, and that means we\'ll need to start coming back with something
a bit more threatening than what we\'ve been going in with so far."

The meeting had commenced shortly after Zripob had returned and regained
his ground--legs, a process that had included a nap and a good meal. He
had left his crew and the Gaoians to organise the unloading of the
weapons and cargo he had obtained during the course of his trip.

In the time since he\'d landed it seemed that the small storage room
adjoining the central gallery had been repurposed into a chamber that
offered the group privacy for candour away from their troops. In truth
the transition had required only the removal of stored goods and the
introduction of a decently sized table.

Doctor Grznk sniffed. "That\'s because you\'re scaring them all," he
said. "Although you\'ll be pleased to learn that they are so terrified
of you that prices for interstellar goods have increased by over three
hundred percent since you began your work. The economic situation of the
Celzi Alliance is no longer what you would call \'robust\'."

"Ach," Jen said thoughtfully, "do you think it would be possible to
engineer an economic collapse?"

"An actual economic collapse would take considerable effort," Grznk
replied, "but it would not be impossible. You may need to get your hands
dirtier than you\'d like."

"We\'re not going to do anything to kill civilians," Jen said flatly.
"That\'s not who we are!"

"And yet you are willing to ruin their economy and their lives?" Grznk
asked in genuine surprise. "What do you imagine the outcome there will
be?"

"Enough of that," Zripob interrupted. "There is no point in arguing over
something that is beyond our abilities. We need to talk about where to
focus our forces, where our own supply lines need to run from, and what
we intend to do to bolster the defenses of this pretty little building."

"You brought all those weapons back," Jen said, "couldn\'t they--"

"They need to be properly set up," Trycrur interrupted. "It\'s possible,
but it will take a while, and won\'t offer a substantial solution
against half--serious orbital invasions."

"You\'re saying that we need a battle station in orbit?" Chir asked.
"How do you imagine that we\'re going to get one of those?"

"A battle station would be *perfect*, but we don\'t need perfect,"
Trycrur replied. "A substantial number of vessels in geosynchronous
orbit would serve just as well."

Zripob nodded. "I know where there are a substantial number of empty
Hunter vessels, if we don\'t need them completely functional."

The members of the meeting quietly shared thoughtful glances at that.
They\'d all been where Zripob was talking. Roughly one hundred Hunter
vessels were adrift in that location, abandoned or otherwise emptied,
and a number of those may even be semi--functional.

"That may work for us," Trycrur agreed. "Getting them *here* will be a
problem, though, since the one thing they *all* have in common is the
lack of a functional FTL."

"Then it doesn\'t sound like that\'s an option," Jen decided. "Any other
ideas?"

"Not unless you\'re suggesting we steal every ship we come across," Chir
replied, and then fell silent.

"That would really interfere with trade," Zripob said thoughtfully.
"Taking a lot of Freighters out of circulation, and you *know* what you
can do with those things if you fill them with fight rather than cargo."

Sniffing in disdain, the Grznk made his own opinion known. "It is deeply
informative that you imagine you could destroy an economy by \'stealing
all of the ships\'."

"Is that possible?" Trycrur asked, ignoring the Corti as usual. "Will
you have enough men to split between vessels?"

"Normally a prize ship is crewed by a bare minimum of men," Jen said,
imparting another tidbit of information on Earthly conventions. "You\'d
want to bring it back right away, so that you wouldn\'t be so weakened
in numbers against any threat you might come up against."

"It\'s a good idea," Zripob decided, looking to Chir for confirmation.
"We\'ll take it slowly, do it right. They won\'t know where we are for a
bit and by the time they do they\'ll need a *real* army to shift us."

"I don\'t like the idea of being attacked by a \'real\' army," Jen said.
"So let\'s keep our escape options open. If we\'re attacked by a serious
threat, I want us ready to retreat while the defenses delay our
attackers."

"Good enough," Zripob said. "I\'ll let my men know what our new plans
are. I\'m sure they\'ll like them."

"Mercenaries like getting paid, Zripob," Chir said disapprovingly.
"That\'s about it."

"You wound me, Chir," Zripob replied, feigning injury. "A man may be
paid well and still have honour!"

"And your men have honour?" Chir asked dubiously.

Zripob laughed croakily. "Of course not! Honorable men would not be
lurking around the trade lanes of the Celzi Alliance, but the good news
is that honorable men are also the sort to throw themselves into the
meatgrinder. What I have is practical men."

"Are there any other points of business?" Jen asked impatiently. She
tended to get that way when meetings dragged on past the actual
business, something she blamed on enduring \'a million useless meetings
every week\' in what she\'d called \'I.T.\'

Whatever \'I.T.\' was.

"Well," Zripob said, "I did have the opportunity to swing past the
orbital factory to catch up on Dominion news."

"And to trade off some valuables, I\'m sure," Chir interjected.

Zripob snorted. "Never before have I met such a self--righteous pirate!
In any case, they have a *statue* of you--know--who now!"

"They gave him a *statue*?!" Trycrur asked in disbelieve.

Zripob was amused to see Jen completely gobsmacked by the information,
and felt the need to continue. "They call him the \'Savior of Irbzrk\',
like saving that rotten place was something to be proud of."

"Please tell me they didn\'t write a song about him," Jen said, which
was something that Zripob found quite strange for her to say.

"Not that I was made aware of," he replied. "The likeness of the statue,
however, is greatly embellished. I am sure that Adrian would have loved
it."

"Is that all?" Jen asked coolly. She clearly wanted to move on.

"One other thing," Zripob said. "I did hear a few local scientists
talking about a \'burst of cosmic radiation\'. It was only later that I
recalled that that was what the Zhadersil supposedly used."

The meeting was silent, and all eyes, involuntarily or otherwise, had
turned to look at Jen. She was as still as a statue, her skin paled and
taking shallow breaths.

"Did they say anything more?" Trycrur asked, obviously careful not to
show too much excitement or interest.

"It didn\'t interest me at the time," Zripob replied. "But it\'s a lead,
if you ever wanted to follow it."

Chir grunted when nobody else answered. "We\'ll think about it."

‚ÅÇ

**Date Point 2 Years 8 months after Vancouver**

**Medical Bay, aboard the Infinite Convergence, Directorate Space**

When Adrian Saunders awoke his first assessment of his situation was
that he was in a hospital of some kind. This was not unexpected, or
indeed unhoped for. The last few moments he could recall had included a
Hunter tucking in on his left shoulder, a wound that still ached
painfully enough for him to assume it far from healed.

The second assessment brought him to the rest of the details, namely
that this was a Corti hospital on an unfamiliar spaceship and he was
heavily restrained. That was not the best possible outcome; he had been
hoping that it would be the others who brought him back from the brink
of destruction. But this wasn\'t all bad, since just by being here he\'d
achieved Objective Three.

Hooray for him.

His pity party was shortly interrupted by the arrival of a Corti in
important looking clothing. A Corti in any clothes at all was a rare
enough thing, but these were so clearly regal that Adrian knew that
whoever it was held a little more power than a pair of salvage hunters
or the ship master of a scout vessel.

"Who the fuck are you supposed to be then?" he as with as little respect
as he could manage. The Corti were the ones who had put him into space
-- and thereby by extension all of the misery that he had found there --
and he was damned if he was going to play nice with the guy in charge of
the whole clusterfuck.

The Corti simply laughed in amusement at his response, not a sound that
Adrian typically associated with Corti in general, and he was unable to
keep the surprise from showing.

"My goodness," the Corti exclaimed. "You are even more abrasive than I
had imagined. You hear reports, but as your people say \'seeing is
believing\'."

"You took me out of my ship?" Adrian asked tersely.

"I recall that we rescued you from a radioactive tomb," the Corti
replied. "If it still worked, I imagine it might be considered to be a
ship."

Adrian gestured towards his shackles, metal restraints that did actually
resemble literal shackles. They had the look of being recently made, so
he thought they may have been tailored just for him. The snug fit
definitely seemed to suggest as much.

"Do you normally chain up the people you rescue?" he asked the Corti.

"I am afraid that you are alone in having that privilege," the Corti
replied. "However, they are more for my protection than your
imprisonment. I have managed to arrive at some importance in my life and
being killed would inconvenience a great many people."

"I can see why they\'d find that unfortunate," was Adrian\'s snide
response. "Is there anything else you lot have done to me? For your own
protection?"

The Corti sighed. "No," he said patiently, "your restoration was delayed
due to certain unrelated factors, but you\'ll find no surprise implants,
no cerebral detonators, and no interesting illustrations on your
epidermis in hard to reach places. I do not want you as my *prisoner*,
Captain Saunders, I want you as my *employee*."

That was definitely a new one, and Adrian couldn\'t help but raise a
doubting eyebrow. His experience with Corti thus far had not been what
he\'d have called cordial, and even those that had done as he\'d told
them hadn\'t been volunteering. If he had to find a word for it, he\'d
call the relationship \'strained\'.

"I am being serious, Captain," the Corti assured him. "I have put
tremendous effort into recovering you from your case of terminal
stupidity, and against the better judgement of my subordinates I want
you to work for me."

"It sounds like you\'ve already spent some time looking into my past,"
Adrian replied. It hadn\'t seem like the Corti was addressing him as the
Shiplord of the Zhadersil, but by his old rank from Earth. That meant
there was a lot more to the Corti than met the eye, and Adrian couldn\'t
help but wonder what else he knew. "Should I be flattered?"

"Be as flattered as you like," the Corti said. "But I\'m not looking to
copulate with you, Captain. I need your help, and I\'m willing to be
generous to get it."

"And if I say no?" Adrian asked.

"I will need to deposit you somewhere safe," the Corti said flatly, "for
the rest of your life if need be. You\'ve done quite enough to upset the
galaxy already, and we don\'t need you giving the Hunters any more ideas
for deadly weaponry. How long before we start seeing Hunter missiles?
Hm? Or Hunter minefields? You, Captain, may have succeeded in ruining
space travel for everybody!"

Adrian hesitated, considering those possibilities, and finding he
didn\'t much like where they led him. "Has that happened?"

"It is only a matter of time," the Corti replied grimly. "Fortunately
the Directorate is ready to develop counter--measures, also based on the
concepts of your homeworld. It is honestly remarkable that one
bad--tempered individual could so drastically alter the galactic
situation."

Adrian exhaled slowly, his decision already made but finding it
difficult to acknowledge the fact. "I think in that case you better
start telling me about this job."

‚ÅÇ

**Cavaras, Corti Directorate Core World**

Most days it was good to be Cameron White. He was richer and more
successful than he ever could have been back in England, and xeno
freakshows, for the most part, would leave him alone. His lifestyle,
extravagant even by Galactic standards, was paid for by Iridis
Industries, a weapons manufacturer amongst other things such as medicine
and childrens\' toys, and one of the larger corporations that sprawled
its way throughout the galaxy.

Most days it was a good job, simply requiring him to be the present
\'dangerous creature\' for less--than--legal meetings, and very
occasionally an unstoppable killing machine that could go where it
wanted and take what it wanted. He\'d never got over the sense of pure
joy in rampaging like an enraged beast, not stopping until everything
that could die had done so at his feet.

You had to get your kicks *somehow*.

The last few months, however, had been markedly less enjoyable. Aside
from the markedly increased numbers of xenos who\'d needed to be
\'disappeared\' for getting too interested in Iridis\' business, the
Hunters and their \'Great Hunt\' had forced Cameron to keeping to
himself as much as possible, hiding away in his luxury penthouse like a
camera--shy superstar, and only going out in disguise.

Being a human had become as much of a burden as it was freedom; from
what he had heard it had mainly been a single human responsible for the
entire mess. Cameron would have liked to punch that man in the nose --
repeatedly until eventually satisfied -- for all the difficulty he had
caused him, but of course it now seemed that that man was dead and
forever beyond his reach for a royal arse--kicking.

Sometimes there was just no justice in life. No justice at all.

Today\'s phonecall didn\'t help. Or communications link. Or whatever.
Fucking xenos couldn\'t give anything a normal name.

"Now, Handles, why don\'t you follow that up," he said to his handler
with his usual flat monotone, "by telling me exactly *why* a group of
pirates running around Alliance space has become *my* concern?"

He wasn\'t aware of his handler\'s actual name, the Corti had not been
interested in telling him, and Cameron wasn\'t interested in asking.
Theirs was a business arrangement, and names were optional as far as
they were both concerned, but the need to call the Corti something had
somehow resulted in the least imaginative pseudonym possible.

"Usually I don\'t ask," Handles told him, his voice as smooth and cool
as any Corti could hope to have, "but this was an unusual case. The
pirates in question are upsetting a lot of traders, and they\'ve taken
to stealing the ships themselves while leaving the crews alive."

"That\'s... rare," Cameron replied. He knew the inept piracy patterns of
alien pirates, and that didn\'t fit. Alien pirates were dumb predators,
attacking ships and killing everyone on board before stealing their
cargo. They didn\'t think of the traders like cows that could be milked
repeatedly.

"They have a human on board," Handles said, as though that was enough
explanation. "We don\'t know what they intend to do with all those ships
yet, and we don\'t know where they\'re taking them."

"You want me to do a little investigating?" Cameron concluded.

"We want you to put an end to their whole operation," Handles corrected
him. "Their success is disrupting the Alliance economy. The war has been
good for us -- good for you as well, White -- and if this persists the
Alliance may be forced to make concessions."

Cameron nodded slowly and deeply, the movement intended to fully convey
his understanding and commitment to the job ahead. "It *has* been good
for me," he said. "And I see no reason to let a good thing end."

‚ÅÇ

**Administration office aboard the Infinite Convergence, Directorate
Space**

The more that Adrian learned about galactic civilisation, the more
completely fucked up it seemed. Prior to today he had been in blissful
ignorance about the political framework of the galaxy. The Dominion and
the Celzi had been too big to think about, the Corti Directorate had
been a pack of arseholes, and the Hunters had been the bad guys.

That had been comfortably simple, he hadn\'t had any issues
comprehending it and every action he took only had the most direct
consequences.

An hour with Councilor Hrbrd had thoroughly disabused him of any notion
of simplicity. He had learned that the Directorate had been the first
major government, and that it had pressed for the creation of the
Dominion, a multi--planetary organisation that served much the same
purpose as the United Nations. Where it differed, however, is that it
had effectively laid claim to all uninhabited parts of the galaxy and it
was this that had provided the catalyst for the Celzi Alliance to break
away and challenge the established order.

This sort of thing was why Adrian hated politics.

It hadn\'t stopped there, though. Hrbrd had taken pains to emphasise the
role that corporations were playing in the conflict. What had been
slowly growing entities before the war had quickly taken the advantages
offered by it and grown fat on its fortunes. There were enough of them
selling to both sides of the conflict that they had every incentive to
prevent its end.

Adrian hadn\'t been at all surprised when Hrbrd got to the part where
they were doing just that, nor to the part where the Corti Councilor
revealed corporate involvement in government decisions. It wasn\'t any
different than it was on Earth, except generally involving markedly more
obviously shady decisions and markedly less competence in carrying them
out.

"It seems to me that you have a pretty good idea who the bad guys are,"
he said, once the Corti had finished explaining. "Why do you need me?"

"Corruption and power have gone hand in hand for as long as history has
been recorded," Hrbrd replied. "I am not going to be the one who
separates them, but I do intend to be the one to ensure these interests
do not interfere with the war."

"A man of peace, then?" Adrian asked, although he doubted very much that
was the case. THe Corti were a practical people who did not pay too much
heed to things such as \'ethics\'. They were more motivated by
self--interest.

"A man who understands that the situation has changed," Hrbrd replied.
"There was less of an issue before *somebody* compelled the Hunters to
begin their \'Great Hunt\', and before *somebody* showed them how to
create area denial weapons and warheads."

Adrian grunted, but his ears burned like they had when his
schoolteachers had berated him as a boy. "So it\'s my fault. Good to
fucking know, so tell me what I\'m supposed to be doing about it."

"Very well then," Hrbrd replied, clearly pleased that his side of the
discussion was going so well. "Let me start by saying that you won\'t be
the first person I\'m putting into action on this. I already have a
successful concern operating within Celzi space, and until recently my
operatives in the Dominion were making good progress until they met with
an unfortunate conclusion."

"An \'unfortunate conclusion\' of what kind?"

Hrbrd frowned. "Of the mysterious kind. That will be your first subject
for investigation. I have already organised a support group to assist
you, but allow me to be candid: I am bringing you on board because you
are both the most capable and the most expendable individual for this
job."

"Thank you for your candour," Adrian replied dryly. "Am I to assume,
then, that you\'ll be dropping me off with some friends?"

"A handler and some techs," Hrbrd confirmed. "But before that we have to
deal with your appearance."

Adrian frowned. "What\'s wrong with it?"

"Everything."


