---
title: Shock and Awe
---

# Shock and Awe

\

\

::: chapter
**Derktha, Agwaren Capital City**\
**Jennifer Delaney**

Jennifer Delaney, mid--twenties space--babe adventurer, rather decent
improvisational swordswoman and evidently an awe--inspiring force of
obliteration that crushed her enemies and terrified civilians alike,
which had proven an unfortunate drawback in several instances when she'd
been unable to convince the locals that she didn't also intend to
slaughter them all. With the language barrier as it was, the best she'd
been able to do for them was to point in a direction and wildly wave her
weapon at them until they got the damned hint that they should scarper
right quick.

Aliens; even on a Deathworld they tended to be thicker than her older
brothers, who she'd often held mustn't have been standing in line when
brains were being handed out. This lot couldn't even handle fending off
a small force of alien death machines.

The problem there was in how they thought about things, their minds and
bodies both limited by the inflexibility of the latter. They were bigger
than her, and much stronger, but they were slow to move and that took a
lot of the danger away unless they actually managed to catch you. They
preferred swords, but they would sharpen them brittle and, with slow
movements, would press them slowly against each other in pitched battle.
From a distance they could, in theory, use the bulky crossbows they
carried around, but those were also unwieldy and decidedly inaccurate
besides.

Agwarens *looked* threatening, but that was about it, and it was no good
at all for dealing with robots that could flit around and kill you with
fire, robots possessing qualities that, in the grand scheme of things,
were much closer to that of Jen than the Agwarens: fast, deadly and more
than capable of avoiding anything as slow as the Agwarens seemed to be.

Jen's sword, its brittle edge now melted blunt, smashed through another
alien death machine, bursting through with a trail of blue plasma that
followed it like some magical force. Even in the all--too--literal heat
of battle, she was able to recognise that she must look really cool, and
that it was a failing of the universe that there was nobody around with
a video camera to make a recording of it.

"For posterity," she mumbled, ducking behind a burned--out chair to take
shelter from the plasma--blast. Although it would only count as
posterity if she actually managed to survive this situation.

She had to admit that things did not look good. Jen had arrived in the
throne room, summon by screams and war cries and then silence, to
discover a wasteland of barbequed corpses and scorched décor. She had
taken down the two robots responsible for the carnage, twin flashes of
steel bringing them down in short order. But not fast enough to stop
them from summoning the others.

Jen had been sitting on the throne, catching her breath and rubbing her
aching arms when they had arrived in force. Twenty of them flooding in
through the front doors as a single force and bearing down on her while,
from on high, a handful of survivors watched from the galleries.

"Well, at least somebody's here to appreciate my efforts," she grumbled
in grim resignation, knowing that odds were good that she was either
going to die or find herself gravely wounded. The throne room was an
open space, although there were steps that rose against each wall, lined
by the large seats capable of accepting Agwaren bulk. These had largely
survived the slaughter, unlike the Agwarens themselves, and now provided
Jen her only real barrier against the grave. That was not especially
reassuring.

There were, however, two factors that were in her favour: her diminutive
size meant the chairs provided more than ample protection, and her speed
gave her the edge she would need. All she needed to do was kill twenty
alien death machines in a single, pitched battle and there would be
nothing more to worry about.

"So then," she whispered, speaking only to herself, "that's something to
look forward to."

Jennifer Delaney started the battle by hurling a dagger straight through
the plasma conduits of the lead robot, a component of critical
importance in preventing the whole thing from exploding a few seconds
later. She was back behind the chair when it went off like a bomb,
spraying the room with burning shrapnel carried on a wave of heat. Four
others, those closest to it at the time, were twisted into molten
wreckage before they could reach a safe distance, and the total force
set against her was immediately reduced by a full quarter.

Not bad for an opening move, and the cheering that rained down from the
galleries gave her a dark satisfaction. The people above had been
witness to a horrible slaughter, the end of their High Lord and much of
their leaders, all blasted into ash by monsters beyond their
understanding. Enough people had died in front of her today to last a
lifetime, and while Jen couldn't promise them victory or entertainment,
she could promise that she'd put every last ounce of energy in her
towards stopping the invasion.

Although the cheering definitely helped, as did the fact that for the
first time of all the times she'd had to set herself against someone
there was no question about right or wrong; not when it came to evil
killer robots, and not when it came to whoever was controlling them.
There was only the question of how it should be done, and the answer was
a refreshingly simple 'by whatever means possible.'

Right now that meant she killed them with swords and knives, but God
help them if she ever got her ship back, or if the wrath of Earth was
ever to fall upon these fuckers. Hell might be a woman scorned, but even
that would pale in comparison to a pissed--off Irish redhead working a
grudge.

The first of her attackers flung itself up into her row of chairs, its
spindly legs catching hold of the furniture to arrest its motion so that
it could pivot its weapons towards her. It was slower that she was,
though, and exploded under the might of her oversized sword, the
wreckage gouting a plume of blue plasma that trailed after her blade
like a magical force. She spun it round to strike the dying machine with
the flat of the blade, batting it into its allies as it exploded and
reducing their number by a further three.

They were down to eleven, and she'd only just gotten started, but Jen
was under no illusions as to their intelligence. The machines were
capable of *learning*, at least to some degree, and they would not try
the same thing after the first attempt had been so disastrous. If they
were anything like death--machines in the movies, they would try to
adapt, try to predict her next move, and try to make a plan around it.
The secret would be in not giving them the luxury.

Jen burst from cover, snatching up twin knives that had survived their
owner, and rolled back into cover as a burst of plasma annihilated her
previous cover. Two things resulted from that: she knew where every one
of the machines now lurked, and so long as the robots weren't dumber
than a box of rocks they knew that the chairs weren't worth a sack of
crap for cover. Things were about to get a little more desperate on
Jen's side of the fight.

She rolled out from cover, flinging one knife and then the other, with
Old Jen vaguely wishing she'd been born ambidextrous. New Jen did just
fine without that sort of unnecessary benefit, however, and managed to
put one of the daggers through a sensor unit and the other through a
particularly ugly tapestry.

That was a pity, but it couldn\'t be helped; the robots would adapt to
her methods and would increasingly learn to evade her knives. She
couldn\'t expect to hit an erratically moving target every time in the
best of situations, let alone when they were actively attempting to
avoid it.

She still had her sword though, and for the moment she had her cover,
and--

The chair in front of her exploded in an enveloping burst of hot plasma
that showered her with hot ash that she only barely avoided letting
blind her. Even so it settled on her skin, searing it with black flecks.
It hurt, but she pushed through it, springing through the billowing
cloud of debris as her cover exploded under concentrated plasma fire.

That had been a clever strategy, to force her to pause before raining
down heavy on her actual position. It was somewhat unsettling to realise
that, not so long ago, her choices would have gotten her killed, but for
now she only had to deal with some slight pain.

But there were still eleven robots left, and they\'d adapted quickly
enough to pose a legitimate threat. If she didn\'t end things quickly...

She sensed the heat before it hit her, and rolled clear of a spread of
plasma that would have rained down upon her in full. The wave of pure
heat still swept her, blasting her skin dry and searing it painfully,
and setting light the edges of her clothes.

Jen\'s head was swimming, and her chest ached for the sweetness of cool,
unpolluted air, but there was no way to escape, and if there was no way
to survive she was going to do the only thing she could: she was going
to take as many with her as she possibly could.

Through fire and flame, and with sword in hand, she launched herself at
them with a last burst of energy and a guttural roar.

⁂

**Record 573--Black--12**\
*+Recovered from C11--Orange--712--Yellow--6+*

"I\'m telling you there *was* something," Vivrez insisted. "Look... this
still works, I\'m going to get it on film. Vassa?"

Vassa frowned, shaking her head and spilling her long, straw--coloured
hair around. "You do what you want. And stop filming me."

"Look," Vivrez told her, "Boph would--"

"Boph is *dead*," Vassa replied flatly. She stared at the camera with an
empty gaze. "I wish *you\'d* died first."

Vivrez paused, then turned the camera around to film his own balding
face. "I\'m not done yet... maybe if Boph was right... if there *are*
aliens out there, maybe we can get them to help us. I have to try, and
even that girl on the video... \'Oiri\', she said that the police woman
suspected they were going around."

"Going around *killing* people," Vassa said nastily from off--camera.
"You think *you* can climb that mountain? You think *you* can fight the
\'killer aliens\'?"

Vivrez looked away, off toward her. "And then you\'ll be alone. I\'m
going tomorrow."

**End Record**

⁂

**Mountain lair of the Dark One, Agwar** **One--Thirty**

The human was faster than any creature One--Thirty had seen before, and
more than capable of wielding the heavy Agwaren weapons that had,
traditionally, posed no threat at all to her Abrogators. It had somehow
managed to throw a knife *across a room* into an Abrogator\'s primary
plasma conduit, and had destroyed a total of five of the machines in the
ensuing explosion. Then it had sliced straight through the combat--ready
hull of an Abrogator, and swatted it back amongst the others where it
would do the most damage.

That was when One--Thirty began to take direct control of all units, a
move that would have been impossible for most members of her kind, but
was merely quite challenging for somebody who\'d had thousands of cycles
to practice. At first she\'d had one unit put down suppressing fire
while her main force had targeted the human\'s position, only to have
the human launch itself *through* the explosion into relative safety.
Then it had narrowly avoided a widely--spread attack that had been
intended to slow the creature down.

One--Thirty had been preparing to leap upon a weakened target, to mob it
and kill it with all the force she could muster. She had not expected it
to be leaping back, even angrier and more vicious than it had been
before.

There was an angry snarl on the human\'s face that put One--Thirty in
mind of ancient enemies, and a burning hatred in its eyes that showed
the kind of rage that only a predator was capable of. One--Thirty had
only seen that kind of rage once before, upon the very face she now
wore.

Ironically if it had been the machines acting alone, they may have
responded with lethal precision before the human could even reach them.
They would not have recoiled on an instinct that transcended time, flesh
or programming, and they most certainly wouldn\'t have panicked as the
human set about ripping them to shreds.

Within moments there were too many plasma explosions for her to keep
track of what was going on, damage reports from all units were flooding
her senses before abruptly terminating.

Two units destroyed, sword thrust. One more on the recovery, and another
three as those units detonated. The remaining five scattered as she sent
the command to escape the blast radius, not noticing that the human rode
one of them.

That unit was destroyed a moment later, not even able to get a good look
at the human that had annihilated it. The others saw it though, a
haggard and burned remnant of its former strength. Its skin was
blistered and red, its hair burned away and its clothing blackened. Only
a deathworlder could have stood up after that, and only the worst of
them could have kept fighting.

In One--Thirty\'s judgement that meant this creature was the worst to
ever live.

⁂

**Derktha, Agwaren Capital City**\
**Groddi**

Lord Groddi had not left the Chosen One behind by choice. He had been
scared, that was true -- terrified, in fact -- but he had his pride and
his courage to guide him through such weakness. He had set aside all of
those things to ensure that, while the Chosen One sought the enemy, he
would see to the populace of the city.

It was not without some ulterior motives that he did this, however.
Groddi knew that he would most likely die in any encounter with the Dark
One\'s forces, just as he knew that if the High Lord were to die the
people would be in search of a new ruler. That being the case, why not
ensure his own survival along with the lives of those who would be left
to make such a decision?

Without shame, Groddi knew that he had advanced himself while his peers
had spent their lives dying in service to their High Lord. The only
thing that concerned him now, as Groddi, and not as the young Lord of
his family, was that the Chosen One was fighting for its survival
against the forces of the Dark One, and that without his help it may
very well fail. Without his help, it might also overlook his importance
in the world after the Dark One, where its opinion would undoubtedly
decide his future fortunes, but there was also the strong possibility
that it might also mean that there was no future to be had whatsoever.

Groddi knew little of the Dark One besides the legends, but he had known
the Chosen One and had seen it move. He had seen it destroy a minion of
the Dark One like no Agwaren ever had, and if there had ever been a
stronger piece of evidence that now was the time, and that this truly
was the chosen one that fate foretold, then he did not know what it was.
Now was the time to bet it all, to gather the strength of his conviction
and to inspire those around him. Now was the time to rise to the banner
of the Chosen One and to claim his rightful destiny. Now was the time
when the Agwarens took back their world from the foul creature that had
soiled it since time immemorial and carved a line in the stone that
would mark history as being \'from this time on, Agwarens rule\'!

With a force of six dozen he arrived just in time to find the Chosen One
at its limits, surrounded by the corpses of friend and foe alike, and
preparing for its final moments. The strange creatures of the Dark One
converged on the Chosen One, reluctant in spite of their superior
number, and paid no attention to Groddi or his men.

Groddi snarled under his breath, deeply offended to be so thoroughly
disregarded, and in that moment made a vow that the Dark One would never
again underestimate any Agwaren. He vowed that he would become a
nightmare to haunt the thoughts of the Dark One until the foul creature
could finally be laid to rest.

He vowed to claim victory here, and at every battlefield henceforth. He
roared the charge, and his men descended upon the shining horrors,
blades raised and crossbows loaded. A cheer flooded down from above as
the men charged, and the foul creatures whirled to face the onslaught.

It was then, in that unforgettable moment, that Groddi witnessed doom
lifting from the Chosen One like a black cloud, and the Otherworlder,
already standing to its full height, seemed to raise itself taller
still. He would never be able to explain how, to those not present, the
Chosen One had seemed so large despite its size.

He would never be able to explain its ferocity, and, upon later
reflection, he would hope to never again see its like.

But that, as it turned out, was not to be.

⁂

**Corporate Secret Holding Pen, Perfection, Class Three World**

**Layla**

Layla did as she had to, and maintained her cool smile until she\'d
exited the chamber that contained Chir\'s cell. She had managed to keep
up the façade of the uncaring enemy agent, she\'d even lied to him about
bearing his child, but those had been the hardest lies she had ever
told. And yet there had never been any question about telling them;
there wasn\'t anything a good Mother wouldn\'t do to keep her cubs safe,
and Layla, in spite of everything, still thought of herself as a good
Mother.

But even she had to admit that the line was becoming a little blurry.

Her composure only slipped when she was sure that the Gaoian legend
wouldn\'t see, and that was entirely the best she could manage.

"If I didn\'t know better, I\'d say you\'ve developed feelings for that
pirate," said the nameless Corti operative in charge of this facility.
His gaze was coldly analytical, and his voice equally so. He was, in
Layla\'s estimation, the Cortiest Corti she\'d ever met, and that was
about the furthest from high praise as she cold get.

She turned to him, hardening her resolve once more. "I\'m a
professional, Agent," she told him. "It doesn\'t matter what I *feel*, I
get the job done."

"If only everybody exuded your professionalism," the Corti replied
humourlessly. "I was watching your interaction, and I believe you have
successfully subverted him. What are your thoughts on the matter?"

"He\'ll do everything you want him to," Layla replied, half hoping it
was untrue. "Though I can\'t promise how well he\'ll do against the
human. They say he destroyed a city on his own."

The Corti managed an involuntary frown. "Merely a rumour," he told her.
"It was little more than a couple buildings and a space station, and it
wasn\'t entirely by himself. Rest assured that your companion in there
is more than capable of taking the human down if he is smart about it."

To Layla, that seemed a lot less likely than the legendary human simply
obliterating Chir at the first sign of treachery, but she had to admit
that it wasn\'t entirely impossible that the Gaoian strategist might be
successful. He might hate her forever for what she was doing now, but it
would be a lighter burden for her to carry than if he died.

"He\'s smart enough," Layla told the hateful little alien. "But I don\'t
know whether the human has brains to match. If he\'s with his Corti
companion I suspect it will be impossible for Chir to succeed."

"Don\'t concern yourself with *that* one," the Corti replied. "We have
resources who have been keeping track of anything we can find on him. We
are confident we can catch him in a moment of weakness."

"And what of my cubs?" Layla finally demanded, unwilling to withhold the
question any further. "Are we *done*? Do I get my children back?"

The Corti answered with an expression that only gave her despair,
plunging the last of her fragile hopes into darkness. "We still have use
for you for a time. Be patient."

Another adjustment to the agreement, then. It had already passed beyond
all semblance of the original contract, and she was an increasingly
unwilling participant in her masters\' plots. At first it had been a
simple job that paid a small fortune, and her only responsibilities had
been to gain Chir\'s trust and involve herself in his plans, suggesting
the vessels of some corporations over others. That had been hard enough,
and she had not been willing to allow Chir to get any closer to her than
a working relationship, but she had been able to justify it by thinking
of all the lives she was saving, and of all the money she would be paid.

The return of Adrian Saunders had changed everything, and she\'d
received an answer almost as soon as she\'d made that report; her
assignment had come to an end, and she was being offered a new
undertaking for even greater reward. She had refused, but her
declination had only gotten her children kidnapped to change her mind.

"I have done *everything* you told me to," she said, her words carrying
an angry growl.

The Corti\'s reply was terse. "And you will continue to do so. Or are
you operating under the mistaken belief that we were merely bluffing?
Let me give you a helpful piece of information: this company does not
bluff. You will remain in our service until you are of no further use,
and I would suggest ensuring that the eventual parting is *amicable*."

Anger swelled within her, but again she could do nothing. She may not
believe she would ever see her children again, and she was beginning to
doubt she would even survive past the end of her service, but for the
moment she was alive and that gave her possibilities. They wanted to
keep her scared, wanted to make her fear for the lives of her children
and clutch to whatever crumbs of hope they gave her.

But there was no trust left for her to give them. She could obey and
hope, or she could plan and act, and Layla had never been the sort of
Gaoian to prefer the former. She was a piece in their game, completely
at the mercy of her masters, but that didn\'t mean she had no options.
There were still those who could be convinced to help her, and those who
had every reason to want to do so.

She left the facility quietly enough, but on her way back to her hotel
she purchased a pen and some paper, antiquated instruments that now
served as luxuries. They weren\'t electronic, and were therefore an
expense, but they couldn\'t be monitored by digital surveillance and in
this day and age few people would even think of communications being
sent in such a manner.

She could only hope, however, that the person she was addressing it to
would receive it, and that he\'d know what to make of it if he did.
There was also the question about what he\'d even manage to do if he
*was* inclined to follow her request, given his current circumstances,
but he was a human, and they seemed to have their ways.

At her hotel desk she leaned close to the paper so that no hidden eyes
could see, and began to compose her letter. *Dear Darragh*, it began, *I
hope this letter finds you well...*

⁂

**Superior Firepower, subverted Hierarchy Command Cruiser**

**Adrian Saunders**

The transition in and out of warp was one that Adrian had always been
able to identify for as long as he\'d been able to recall. It was a
tingling, not uncomfortable, that focused in all of his nerve clusters.
Not uncomfortable per se, but it certainly got his attention.

He was, therefore, well and truly awake when Askit relayed the fact.
"We\'ve just entered Local Space," he advised. "Although I suppose you
already know that. We\'re about (three hours) out though, so there\'s no
need to hurry."

Adrian lifted the thermal dampener that blindfolded him as he slept and
rubbed the sleep from his eyes. "Thanks, mate," he said through a yawn.
"But I\'m up now. I\'ll just get an early start on things."

Askit acknowledged and ended the communicator link, leaving Adrian to
get his shit sorted out. He\'d felt better with getting solid hours of
sleep, and he\'d even taken up whatever he could remember of the
meditation and yoga stuff he\'d been forced into joining by his wife,
back when they were newlyweds. It hadn\'t done much for him back then,
but now... it calmed the simmering madness that threatened to boil over
whenever he was put into a stressful situation. He wished he\'d paid
more attention to it at the time.

"What are you doing?" Xayn asked with interest, witnessing the breathing
and exercise routine for the first time. "Some form of exercise?"

"\'Warrior One\', one of the few parts I can remember of something we
call Yoga," Adrian replied. "It\'s meant to build strength, and improve
balance and state of mind. Fuck knows I need the last one."

Xayn nodded. "My people also make use of physical repetition to improve
combat effectiveness. My father ensured that I spent much time in this
practice when he still lived."

Adrian eased from his stance. "Your father died bravely."

"Yes," Xayn said, looking thoughtful. "I know. Perhaps I could join you
in your practice?"

Adrian shrugged, feeling a little interested in seeing what the ancient
civilisation had to offer. What happened next made him glad that the
V\'Straki had not yet managed to interpret a stifled laugh.

Adrian disguised it with a coughing fit, not wanting to insult the
saurian, but jumping up and down on alternating legs while furiously
scratching at the air wasn\'t exactly what he was hoping to see.

"Yeah, mate," he said, once the absurd demonstration was complete, "I
can tell you spent a lot of time on that."

"The secret is in the hopping," Xayn confided, glancing around as if
worried they\'d be overheard. "You need to keep the right kind of
rhythm. I am told that, on the homeworld, there would be fields full of
students moving as one. It must have been glorious."

"I wish I could have seen it," Adrian said truthfully, his face a frozen
mask. "It\'d be unforgettable."

Xayn looked away wistfully and then nodded. "Do not worry, if we are
successful then I will ensure you have the chance."

Adrian moved his head up and down in a very deliberate nod. "It would be
a dream come true."

His voice threatened to break under the sheer effort of keeping the
laughter in, and he forced himself into another coughing fit.

That merely brought on an expression of concern however, and Xayn
studied him carefully. "I hope that I have not infected you with
something..."

"Nah, mate," Adrian reassured him. "Totally fine."

Askit provided a mercifully well--timed interruption, arriving on scene.
He looked tired, as he always had since they\'d stolen the ship; he\'d
been over the systems twice and still didn\'t fully trust them. Not that
Adrian felt any better about it; he slept in Spot, regardless of the
relatively cramped quartets, and kept his vacuum suit -- sans helmet --
on at all times. It wasn\'t paranoia if you\'d learned the hard way.

"You look troubled," Adrian observed, noting that the little Corti
hadn\'t offered any sharp remark on joining them. "What\'s wrong?"

"As bizarre as it sound," Askit replied, sounding puzzled, "what\'s
wrong is that nothing is wrong. We\'re approaching Perfection--"

"Some might say we\'re already there," Adrian joked, waggling an
eyebrow.

Askit gave him the disgusted look he deserved. "We haven\'t been
detected, and nobody is shooting at us. I have a bad feeling about this
enterprise."

"Something to do with this Vakno?" Adrian guessed. Askit had seemed to
respect her abilities, which really was something to be concerned about,
but in the end she was only one Corti.

"I attempted to pry into her systems," he revealed. "The only seriously
secure systems on the planet, prison included. The connection was
terminated within moments."

"Ah, fuck." Adrian grumbled. "Did you leave any fingerprints?"

"He was working on a computer, Adrian," Xayn reminded him. "He would not
have been able to touch those computers."

"The walking fossil is correct," Askit agreed. "My arms are not quite
that long."

"It\'s an idiom," Adrian said with a sigh. "It means \'does she know it
was you?\'"

"I suspect that she will figure it out if you go down there shouting
your name," Askit replied. "So please don\'t do that."

"Well that\'s Plan A dead in the fucking water," Adrian retorted. "I
guess I will just switch over to Plan B."

Askit\'s response was predictably dry. "Business as usual, then."

"We have a military tactic on Earth called \'Shock and Awe\'," Adrian
replied, shifting gears for serious discussion. "Basically it boils down
to using way too much firepower."

"You\'re attacking a prison complex, not a space fortress..." Askit
noted. "It wouldn\'t be expecting an attack at all."

Adrian grinned, and waved a hand around to gesture at both ships abd
everything in them. "Then they *really* won\'t be expecting what we\'ll
ve serving up. You know where Darragh is being held?"

Askit shot him an indignant look as an answer.

"So we\'ll start the show with some cloaked missiles, follow up by my
arrival, and sustain coilbolt fire until we\'ve got the Irishman out of
there," Adrian explained. "Any questions?"

"Let me understand this," Xayn said after a few moments of
consideration. "You intend to maintain artillery fire on the facility
you are invading. Are all humans this reckless?"

"I\'m once again amazed that I\'m saying this, but your crazy plan could
work," Askit added. "You just need to avoid being shot by coilbolts. It
should be easier for you because you\'ll be the only one not being
targeted."

"That *was* the idea," Adrian replied, as overwhelmed as usual by the
show of support. "Now you all tell me what the fucking *problems* are."

"It is completely insane," contributed Xayn.

Adrian glared at him. "Except for that one."

"You\'re a human," Askit said, "and if they caught Darragh we can assume
they have human--level weapons."

"There\'s also the local guard unit," Trix added, chiming in over their
communicators. "They\'ll probably get there within a few (minutes) of
your attack. That\'s not a lot of time."

Adrian frowned; he\'d been hoping for a reasonably soft target that
would surrender rather than fight, thereby reducing the number of
casualties. An armed response would change that. "So, what kind of
response can we expect, and what would slow them down?"

"That would depend on what they\'re expecting," Trix replied. "Against a
human they\'d bring their big guns, although it\'s hard to say if
they\'d hesitate. The only target they\'d delay against would be..."

"Hunters," Askit finished. "The response teams are always late to
attacks by Hunters. And you just so happen to have a Hunter ship."

"And we already know what Hunters will do against anywhere found to be
harbouring a human," said Trix. "It might even be possible to get
through this without firing a single shot."

"You\'re saying we should *pretend* to be Hunters?" Adrian repeated,
turning over the idea in his head. "Could that work? I don\'t exactly
have a fucking Hunter costume lying around."

Xayn hissed unhappily. "I am sorry to interrupt, but what is a
\'Hunter\'?"

"Short version? Space--Cannibals," Adrian told him. "Long version?
Creepy white aliens who like eating other intelligent species. I killed
a whole fucking lot of them a couple times, and it\'s for the best that
they still think I died on take--two, but now they\'ve got issues with
my entire species. My bad, I guess."

"So you will pretend to be the enemy of all species to secure the
release of one of your own?" Xayn asked. "A bold plan. I like it!"

Adrian smiled at him. "The big question is, can anybody do a convincing
Hunter accent? Trix?"

"You want me to speak in Hunter?" she asked, somewhere between surprised
and disgusted. "My understanding of them is that they communicate
through their implants. I\'m not sure there\'s much of a language to be
spoken, and what does exist is foul beyond measure."

"I believe that\'s a no," Askit supplied. "But it\'s not as though
they\'ll know that what\'s being given to them isn\'t the Hunter
language. You probably just need to advertise your vessel and start
making obnoxious demands. I\'ve a feeling you\'ll be good at that."

"Fuck you, too, mate," Adrian replied with a laugh. "Well, it sounds
like a real Plan A to me. You\'ll be supporting me from the Superior
Firepower, mate?"

Askit nodded. "Of course. I will retain Xayn here for everybody\'s
safety. The killer robot can go with you and Trycrur."

"And when do you make your assault the Prison and take the human male
from your enemies?" Xayn inquired excitedly. "I will wish to be watching
as you rain fire upon their puny bastion."

"We\'ll call that Plan B," Adrian told him. "Don\'t worry, things
normally go tits up real fucking quick, so the odds are good that
you\'ll get your fireworks."

"Such confidence," Askit noted. "I suppose that I should just ready the
missiles."

"And I," Trix said, "have some ideas I\'d like to add to this \'Shock
and Awe\'."

⁂

**Perfection Penitentiary, Perfection, Class Three World**

**Darragh Houston**

Darragh Houston had never been in prison before, unless of course you
counted being held in captivity by the Corti, but that was hardly the
same thing. Back then he hadn\'t done anything to deserve his
incarceration, and moral indignation was entirely justified.

Now, however... not so much. He had to admit that the charges that they
were laying against him were serious, and equally as accurate. He was a
pirate, and a killer, and actually being confronted with that fact was
rather depressing. Back home, in Ireland, the sentence for that sort of
thing was measured in years; out here they were less squeamish about the
death penalty, and didn\'t mess about with delays. At a guess he\'d have
no more than three weeks before he was \'processed\', and that would be
that.

He supposed it could be worse: waiting around for months or years would
be more than he could handle. As it was he was already having trouble
keeping it together.

The cell they were keeping him in was large for a human, clearly built
to hold even the largest of alien offenders, and came with what aliens
deemed as only the most necessary of facilities. It had a bed with, in
human terms, a luxurious mattress, along with a hygiene unit capable of
dealing with the bodily waste of just about anything except for a human
-- he\'d already broken it twice in his stay. Food was provided to him
in the form of nutrient spheres, but not in the quantities needed to
sustain a human, and nothing he\'d said had made any difference; when he
died he was going to die hungry.

Then there was the matter of his clothing, or more specifically the fact
that he didn\'t have any. They\'d taken it from him while he was
unconscious, determined to prevent their captured human from having
anything he could use in the process of escape. Clearly, if they thought
he was clever enough to escape with only his clothes, they had no idea
who they were dealing with.

If silver linings were to be had, it was that the climate was more than
sufficient to make nudity comfortable, and that Keffa wasn\'t here to
pass comment. As to where Keffa actually was, he hadn\'t a clue, but he
did know that there was no chance of him ever seeing either Keffa or
Chir again.

*So much for silver linings*, he thought bitterly. Ultimately he didn\'t
have a thing going for him; he was completely and utterly fecked.

He looked up at the entrance to his cage as one of his guards, a Robalin
male wearing a proudly yellow guard sash and a Irbzrkian stungun
tentatively tossed him a folded piece of paper. "Delivery for you," the
guard said as he released it. "Looks as though there\'s still somebody
who cares about you out there, human, although why they couldn\'t have
sent a digital message is anybody\'s guess."

Darragh picked it up and looked it over, spending several minutes
looking at the alien glyphs that covered it before scrunching it up in
one hand; his translator was not sufficiently advanced to allow for
translation of non--digitised text. The best he could do, and this was
solely from his experiences alongside Chir, was identify it as Gaoian.

He looked up at his guards, not sure he should ask but not seeing that
he had any choice. "Can you read what it says?"

Normally they ignored his questions or requests, no doubt finding it
easier than repeating the same answers, and they did not break this
trend now. He muttered his thoughts on the matter without much care
whether they heard him. "Feck you guys."

Half a moment later, Darragh Houston\'s life began to take a distinct
turn for the worse.

⁂

**Derktha, Agwaren Capital City**\
**Jennifer Delaney**

The adrenaline rush of her final push had left Jen exhausted, and she
had only managed to scuttle clear of the wreckage of the final robot
before it exploded. Then she had collapsed, trying and failing to heave
in enough good air through all the smoke and filth to satisfy her
body\'s requirements. Her vision swam, and she only vaguely realised
that it was Groddi dragging her away from the battlefield while other
Agwarens stared in amazement.

"I suppose it was pretty impressive," she mumbled, nearly incoherent, as
she looked back at the scene she was being carried away from, one last
effort before she let her head loll to the side and gave up all
resistance.

When she next became aware, the air was rich and cool, and the room --
no, it was a tent -- was filled with natural light. She was wrapped in
blankets, her face in bandages, and every wound was covered in some
foul--smelling ointment that took the pain away.

Her whole body seemed stiff but thankfully not sore, especially the arm
that had not stopped swinging Groddi\'s oversized blade.

At the thought of Groddi, she stared around, discovering only one eye in
good use, only to eventually find him resting in her blindspot. His
slumbered stirred as she choked out barks of glad laughter, and he was
immediately by her side.

"I knew they would be wrong," he whispered to her, his fur--covered face
close to hers. "The chirurgeons believed you would not awaken for days,
and not be healed for (weeks), and yet here you are, conscious after
mere hours. How do you feel?"

Jen groaned, a sound with meaning that carried in any language, and
Groddi laughed kindly. "It is no doubt unpleasant to have such injuries,
but let me offer you this... after what I saw you do, I believe you
*are* the Chosen One, and so do all others."

"Great," Jen muttered bitterly. "I\'m happy my fighting for my life
could be part of your religious experience."

"There is one more thing..." Groddi continued, moving along at the sound
of her disgruntled tone. "The High Lord is dead, and he had no heirs.
Many would ask *you* to lead us, but I do not believe it is in their
interest to be ruled by somebody who is not an Agwaren, even if it is
you."

Jen looked at him, raising the eyebrow that still worked. "You\'re about
to suggest I use my authority as Chosen One to install you as the new
ruler, aren\'t you?"

"I would ask that you recommend me to the position, Chosen One," he
replied, confirming her suspicions completely. "In return I will offer
you what aid I can in your fight against the Dark One. He must answer
for his crimes."

Jen sighed; she knew that Groddi was using her for his own purposes, but
she didn\'t know the political situation to pass any comment on it. Nor
did she know their language enough to ask someone to explain it, or even
know who could be trusted to tell her plainly. In the end it just seemed
easier to go with it and clean up any ensuing mess afterwards. "Fine...
you can be \'High Lord\' or \'King\' or \'Guy in Charge\', or whatever
you want to call yourself."

She gave him a smile and a nod to affirm his request, and he withdrew
happily. "In that case I shall leave you to your rest. Servants will be
posted to provide you with anything you may need."

Jen allowed herself to rest back into her bedding as he left, staring
one--eyed at the canvass above her. "I don\'t suppose you could provide
me with a way off this planet?"

She allowed a moment of silence to pass before she continued. "...No?
Thought as much."

Well, if nothing else, she could one--up Adrian\'s record of how injured
she\'d gotten while still managing to pull a victory, and in spite of
everything he\'d been through he\'d never managed to lose an eye.

She waited for Old Jen to say something casually sarcastic, perhaps a
reminder that Adrian was dead and that she was to blame, or that her
parents would be horrified to discover their beautiful daughter now had
the reputation and the looks of a legendary pirate, but nothing came.
There wasn\'t even the hint of a whisper from the remnants of her old
self, in spite of the situation being perfect for her unwanted input.
All she had was silence.

In panic, Jen briefly searched her mind for that familiar corner of
persisting personality, and found it missing. Whatever had burned away
her left eye had also burned away Old Jen, leaving what was left to feel
fractured and alone.

⁂

**Planetary Administration Office, Perfection, Class Three World**

**Planetary Administrator Golvek**

The Planetary Administration office on Perfection was an exercise in
luxury, a sizeable complex that neatly merged the need for utility with
the desire for absurd luxury. It was almost like a palace compared to
most planets, but on a planet like Perfection it was exactly what was
expected.

Perfection, after all, was a world that had been carefully redesigned to
be as gentle, relaxing and pleasant as possible, and that meant it was a
big step above the other, entirely natural populated worlds of the
Dominion.

And normally the planet basically ran itself, with only minimal input
required from the Administration office, or more specifically from
Golvek. Today, however, was not a normal kind of day.

A normal kind of day did not include being dragged away from an
important game of Belfu to be told that *Hunters* were in orbit and were
making very specific demands over the supply of their one imprisoned
human to their ship.

"What exactly was their message?" Golvek asked his people -- he didn\'t
care to remember their names -- as he sat down in his
never--before--used critical situation command chair. "And what details
can we get from the scans?"

"The scans make no sense..." one of his clerks relayed to him. "Our
sensor technicians are reporting that the vessel is equipped with a
massive amount of reactor potential, along with a sensor suite that
rivals those aboard capital ships."

"Could it be some sort of scout?" Golvek wondered aloud. "It would make
sense for a scout to have those sorts of things, and it may suggest how
they located the human under all of that concrete."

Mantu, an ex--corporate Glinghi male who served as counsel to Golvek
made his own thoughts known. "Whatever it is, it has advised us that it
wants all humans in our care. It says that any failure to comply will
bring the Swarm of Swarms... I do not believe that this is even worth a
discussion; the human was to be executed, at least this way its death
can serve some additional use."

Golvek rubbed his teeth together, slipping some cqcq leaves into his
mouth as he pondered the situation. He was a great proponent of thinking
things out very thoroughly before acting, and usually Perfection was the
ideal place for that sort of thing. Right now he was finding it to be
anything but; Hunters, like humans, forced him to be hurried in all
things, and did not give Golvek proper time to consider all
alternatives. "I am inclined to agree... but what if we simply destroy
their vessel and claim we never received the message?"

"I don\'t believe that will work," Mantu replied. "They have already
advised that their fleet knows that they have arrived here. Frankly I
don\'t see why we are hesitating at all, any prospect of saving lives
should be acted upon."

That was obvious, it was also simply not part of \'the plan\' that
Golvek had been told to operate under. The human named Darragh Houston
was to have escaped from captivity in two days, thanks to an oversight
made by his guards; he was *not* supposed to be fed to Hunters! *She*
would not be at all pleased with that decision, and Golvek knew the
dangers of disappointing that one.

"Perhaps there is a way for everyone to be happy," Golvek said
thoughtfully, wondering what would have to be done to move the schedule
up to get it all happening roughly now--ish. Not that he wouldn\'t be
willing to throw everything he had at it; after all, his political
survival depended on it.

He turned his attention back to his confused counselman. "Leave this
matter to me, Mantu. I will ensure that everything ends in a manner we
will all find satisfying."

⁂

**Perfection Penitentiary, Perfection, Class Three World**

**Darragh Houston**

The first unusual thing that Darragh noticed was all the talk about the
Hunter ship in orbit, apparently making demands to collect him. It was
strange enough that the usually stoic guards were talking at all, let
alone about something that would inevitably effect Darragh; it was
completely bizarre the way they completely ignored a maintenance worker
entering the room and leaving pack of equipment behind, within easy
reach of Darragh, and then vacating the room to leave Darragh to his own
devices.

It was clear that there was some trickery afoot, and that they were
attempting to play Darragh for some fool. No doubt they were hoping that
he would escape, and then they\'d be able to wash their hands of the
whole situation.

Well... they\'d be waiting for a while. There was no way he was going
out there to feed *himself* to those things; if they wanted him gone
they were going to have to drag him out of there.

That didn\'t mean that he didn\'t check the pack for what it contained,
and nor did it mean that he didn\'t gorge himself on the bland nutrient
spheres he found there. There was also enough material in the sack
itself to cut himself up a horrible pair of trousers, deciding that if
he was going to be eaten then he would be eaten with his clothes on.

It seemed that when you were screwed no matter what you did, your list
of priorities was cut way down.

⁂

**Spot, orbiting Perfection, Dominion Class Three World**

**Adrian Saunders**

"What the fuck is taking so long?" Adrian asked, completely and utterly
bored. "I thought you said this was going to be quick and easy."

"Askit is getting me the information now," Trix said apologetically.
"He\'s currently monitoring the communications on the planet and came
across some interesting conversations. Patching it through... now."

"--just sitting there?!" demanded an angry voice, full of authority.
"They\'re supposed to be relentless killers and escape artists... how
many times have you damned *Corti* misplaced the ones you\'ve abducted?"

"That was Planetary Administrator Golvek," Trix explained. "This
conversation is being had with Prison Administrator Ruvut."

The next voice was unmistakeably owned by a Corti, filled with the usual
snide self--importance coupled with a distinct lack of significant
emotion. "Darragh Houston has not been just \'sitting there\'. He has
spent the last few minutes gorging himself on nutrient spheres and
turning a perfectly serviceable pack into a garment. I believe he may be
so terrified that he has entirely lost his mind."

Golvek grumbled loudly, not at all mollified by the explanation. "I
would have you ensure he finds it again before I am forced to make
further *concessions* with the Hunters! Do you want them to pay you a
visit, Prison Administrator?"

"I most assuredly do not," Ruvut replied, unsettled by Corti standards.
"I will see to it that Darragh Houston is ejected from this facility
under the guise of some... administrative error. I trust he will have
transport waiting for him?"

"It\'s *already* waiting. See it happens in short order or I will not be
responsible for what the Hunters choose to do," Golvek commanded.
"Goodbye."

The communication link ended, and Adrian let out a frustrated sigh.
"So... they\'re trying to get him to escape so we can, what? Fucking
catch him?"

"It certainly seems that way," Trix replied. "Thus far we have not been
able to determine why they haven\'t simply handed him over."

"Something stinks like all--fuck about this, Trix," said Adrian,
adjusting himself so that his feet, which had been up on the next chair
over, were now firmly on the floor. "There\'s some kind of bullshit
going on that we can\'t see. Maybe we should try for Plan B?"

"I could put the pressure on first," Trix suggested. "Maybe they\'ll
give in if the threats become too serious?"

"You might overplay your hand if you do that..." Adrian said before
remembering who he was talking to. "I mean... if you say too much to
them they might figure out something\'s up."

Trix considered this briefly, then relented. "There\'s a strong
possibility that this could happen. I suppose it\'s time for Plan B."

Adrian picked up his shotgun and checked it over one last time.
"Rightio, we better get a fucking move on then."

A moment later the cloaking systems re--engaged, and the engines were
pushing them down towards the planet below. The way Adrian figured it,
if neither the aliens nor Darragh Houston were going to hand over
Darragh Houston, it looked like it was up to him.

⁂

**Planetary Administration Office, Perfection, Class Three World**

**Planetary Administrator Golvek**

At the report of the Hunter vessel reentering cloak, Golvek knew for
certain that he\'d run out of time. If Ruvut couldn\'t get the human out
of there within the next few minutes... well, that\'d be it for Ruvut;
there wasn\'t much use trying to save a Corti at the best of times, let
alone one too useless to purposefully achieve the release of a creature
countless of other Corti had accidentally released before.

The level of incompetence was so staggering that Golvek unkindly wished
the Hunters would take their time on the Prison Administrator. Maybe
take a limb at a time... that would be fitting, especially since Golvek
himself would undoubtedly be torn apart in the near future; the media on
Perfection could be truly vicious.

"The Hunter ship... can we try and track it?" he asked hopefully.
"Surely we must know where to look?"

The clerk responsible for conferring with the sensor techs put his link
on hold. "Not the ship itself, but they are detecting atmospheric
disturbances in keeping with an object of that size. It\'s headed for
the prison."

"Should I order the Planetary Guard to intercept?" Mantu asked. "I am
certain that they will already be on standby."

Golvek indicated to the negative. "Have them set up a containment area.
This Hunter incursion will be tolerated at the prison only. Transmit
that fact to those wretched flesh--eaters. Anything beyond that will
earn a full repudiation by our forces."

Mantu looked nervous, the telltale tittilations of stress showing around
his neck. "You want me to *threaten* the Hunters?"

"If nothing else, the humans have shown us that Hunters must be dealt
with using a firm hand," Golvek said. "A very firm hand, Mantu. Send the
message."

His counselman turned to do as he was bade, only to stop as the world
around them shook under a deep thunder. It was not a noise that Golvek
was familiar with, and he turned to his more widely experienced
counselman for an answer. "Mantu..." he said quietly. "What was that
just now?"

Mantu looked at him, his skin now positively palpitating, and gathered
his words. "Administrator," he said shakily, "that was a sound I
haven\'t heard since the attack at the head office of my former
employer. That was an explosion, and a very big one."

"An explosion?" Golvek repeated, not making sense of it. Hunters used
many dreadful things, but big explosions did not feature amongst them.
"Where?"

It was the clerk who answered him. "Report from the Planetary Guard...
most of the prison was just levelled. The Guard Commander is asking
whether you want him to move in."

Golvek stared at him, mouth open and stuck halfway between issuing two
opposing orders at the same time. Mantu, mercifully, came to the rescue.
"The Planetary Administrator has already ordered them to hold a
perimeter! No further instruction should be necessary!"

The clerk recoiled from the usually softly--spoken counselman and
relayed the message. Golvek, for his part, simply stared at the Robalin
with gratitude.

"Mantu," he said quietly. "Is this the best way to do this?"

Mantu looked anything but confident. "Sorry, Administrator. I\'m not
sure that it is. I do believe that our forces can hold the line against
a Hunter incursion of that size, provided there are no further
surprises."

Golvek grumbled loudly, his temper strained by the stress of the
situation. "If there\'s anything I hate it\'s surprises."

No sooner had he said it that a great, rumbling voice rolled across
them, as though screamed by a giant, forming the words of Golvek\'s
distress.

"Surprise parental incest?" he repeated, wondering exactly what in the
void that was supposed to mean.

"Oh..." said Mantu, somehow growing even more horrified. "It can\'t
be..."

⁂

**Perfection Penitentiary, Perfection, Class Three World**

**Adrian Saunders**

"Surprise, motherfuckers!" Adrian shouted, his thunderous outburst
passing through the vacuum suit and roughly matching the coilbolt
bombardment in volume. That wasn\'t all him, most of it was Trix getting
really creative with turning Spot\'s kinetics into sound, but it filled
the rising cloud of dust and debris like the all consuming voice of a
demon--god.

Frankly he felt sorry for any poor fucker hearing it unprotected -- his
own ears were pained through the suit -- but he had wanted shock and awe
and here it was. Anybody who\'d been stumbling around in a blind panic
when he\'d landed was now screaming in pain and terror on the ground,
some of them while staring at him. He was armed with a SPAS12
semi--automatic combat shotgun, capable of delivering up to four rounds
per second if you were quick enough, but in this particular case it was
just a useful prop in a show of overpowering force. The same could be
said about the vacuum suit, for while it served to protect him from the
choking dust it also obscured his features. This was a psychological
battle, and it would require wills far more resilient than than those of
prison guards to resist the performance he was putting on today. It was
so loud and obvious, in fact, that he thought that the entire city must
surely have heard it.

"You will all *be consumed*," Adrian snarled, trying to remain as savage
as possible. "There will be none who escape the Swarm of fucking
Swarms... unless one condition is met!"

Adrian paused dramatically, letting the booming words sink in. "You must
hand over all humans immediately."

He had decided to be as vague as possible in regards to the actual
quantity of humans he wanted handed over, although they\'d made sure to
make mention of tge one being held in the prison, by location if not by
name.

"You will now bring the human of this place before me!" he continued,
waiting only long enough to let them begin to recover from the auditory
barrage before roaring his final words. "Fucking, now!"

And then, as if by magic, there was Darragh standing before him, wearing
nothing but a hastily converted sack that he needed to hold up at all
times and a look of pure disbelief at the extent of the damage that had
been done and was still being done to the complex that had held him.

He turned to face Adrian, looked him up and down, and shouted at the top
of his lungs. "Well I\'m feckin\' now, so perhaps you could *turn the
feckin\' volume down*?"

Adrian did so, and then opened his helmet to show his face. "It\'s me."
he said.

Darragh didn\'t look surprised. "Yeah, I know it is. You\'re not exactly
subtle, you know."

"Fair enough," Adrian said, and nodded to the improvised clothing.
"So... the bag\'s a new look."

"Thank you for noticing," Darragh replied with instant sarcasm, "I put a
lot of work into it... look, is this a feckin\' rescue or a craft
workshop?"

Adrian sniffed. "This is a rescue," he said, stepping back into the
doorway that appeared from nowhere. "So, we\'d better get a fucking move
on."

⁂

**Planetary Guard, Perfection, Class Three World**

**Commander Dursus**

"Not Hunters then..." Dursus repeated, finally speaking to someone with
actual authority. "The problem is that we\'re configured to fight
Hunters, not some sort of... super--human."

Counselman Mantu was not to be calmed, however. "Throw everything you
have at him! I hear nerve--jammers work--"

"We do *not* have those awful things," Dursus angrily interrupted. "And
even if we did we wouldn\'t be deploying them within city limits. The
best we can do is attempt to bring down the ship, or to use the
Irbzrkian stun guns. My people have combat harnesses, we should easily
be a match for him."

"I am forwarding you all of the details I have on that individual,"
Mantu replied with intense terseness. "I suggest you read it *promptly*
and develop your own opinion, Commander."

He terminated the communications link before Dursus could get another
word in, leaving the Commander to stare at the display in frustration.
Then, after a moment spent composing himself, he brought up the human\'s
file and began to read.

Moments later he called for backup.

⁂

**Spot, Skies of Perfection, Class Three World**

**Adrian Saunders**

"Alright, let\'s get the fuck out of here," Adrian ordered Trix after
they began to lift off. "Get us back to the Superior Firepower and
we\'ll figure out how to get Darragh here some fucking pants."

"Feck off," Darragh shot back unhappily. "I\'ve spent the last few days
without clothes! It\'s not a joke!"

Adrian shrugged a little awkwardly. "Kind of is, mate..."

"Adrian, we have inbound Planetary Guard vessels closing on our
position," Trix interrupted. "They\'re probably tracking us through
atmospheric disturbance."

"How exact is that?" Adrian asked, suddenly concerned that the cloaking
system wasn\'t going to be of much use.

"Not very, but they have a lot of guns," Trix replied. "I am undertaking
random movement patterns to make it as difficult as possible for them to
hit us. You should wear your safety belts -- it may be unpleasant."

"Sorry," Darragh said, eyes wide, "but is that *Trycrur*? Isn\'t she
supposed to be dead?"

"Ye--" Adrian began, a moment before the gravity suddenly shifted hard
to the right. He found himself pressed up against a very unhappy, mostly
naked Irishman and metal bulkhead. Loose odds and ends bounced rained
down on him.

"Fuck!" Adrian cursed, rubbing his head, "I think that was a datapad
just then--"

Gravity switched to the left, and the two men stared at each other for a
moment before plunging back in the other direction.

"Trix," Adrian grated as he shoved Darragh off to the side. "This is
really fucking unpleasant."

"She did say to wear safety belts," Darragh reminded him, reaching
upward towards the chairs and finding them just out of reach, and
gravity chose that moment to switch again. "Oh dear..."

"Mate," Adrian grunted, shoving the Irishman off him for what he
seriously hoped was the last time. "I\'d *really* like it if you put
that fucking bag back on."

⁂

**Perfection, Class Three World**\
**Vakno**

Perfection was a beautiful planet, manufactured from a hospitable world
to be the most hospitable planet technology could achieve. Absolutely
everything was optimal, and usually it was hard to imagine anything that
would have actually improved it. Sometimes Vakno would wish it was more
industrial, or had better networks, or one minor thing or another.
Today, for the first time, there was a very compelling reason to *leave*
paradise.

That was the arrival of Adrian Saunders.

Prior to her investigation into the Gaoian, Chir, she had not been
particularly aware of the human disaster known as Adrian Saunders except
in the most peripheral of ways. It was the name of a man who was near
myth, who had crushed the Hunters in a defeat so humiliating that they
had felt the need to effectively declare war upon that Saunders\' entire
species. Subsequent stories revolved around battles with the
corporations ending in wholesale carnage, the theft of starships and
spacestations, and of a secret war against the shadowy myth of the
Hierarchy.

They had, of course, been easily dismissed with anyone possessing a
solid grasp on reality, but there had to be elements of truth behind it.
That, at least, was what she had thought until current events proved
that the human disaster was aptly named. Her agent in the Administration
office, already on watch for any indication of what had transpired with
Chir, Keffa, and Darragh on her very doorstep, had reported that he had
recognised the voice in the rolling thunder deafening the city.

Adrian Saunders, the man who had shattered a corporation, was busy doing
the same to the prison. Adrian Saunders, who had a Corti companion well
known for violating computer networks, as her own had so recently been
violated.

Adrian Saunders... friend to Chir and Keffa and Darragh, and someone who
Vakno had no wish to meet. At best it would end with her business being
destroyed, and at worst it would end with her death alongside it. She
wasn\'t going to take the chance.

"Sentinels," she said, issuing vocal commands to her two sentry bots.
"Make sure you kill anybody who enters this room who isn\'t *me*.
Especially if they are another Corti or an over--muscled human."

The sentry bots responded with their regular tonal acknowledgement,
followed by an unfamiliar voice. "Intelligent instructions, I\'d be
offended if I wasn\'t so complimented by your obvious fear of us."

Vakno froze, staring at the sentry bots. They made no move to arm their
weapons, but there was no chance she\'d be able to escape her own office
without them exacting a bloody cost on her, if she was able to make it
out at all. "May I presume that I am speaking with the legendary
criminal, \'Askit\'?"

He laughed, a strange sound for a Corti to make. "You may, Vakno. Now,
since both of our reputations precede us, it seems we can skip straight
to the *chat*."

Vakno thought quickly about how the Corti hacker could be controlling
her sentry bots. Normally they were tied into her personal network, and
used it for all their standard software resourcing, but she had disabled
that when he had made his first attempt to access her computer systems.

"You\'re using their wireless connection..." she told him, "but how?
There\'s no wireless networks close enough to connect to them. I made
*certain* of that!"

Another chuckle, annoying to even her calm Corti psychology. "I\'m not
without my resources, Vakno. Once I had determined your address it was a
straightforward matter to deploy a wireless device to your vicinity."

"I would have detected a probe!" she said, unwilling to believe him at
face value. "I am also \'not without my resources.\'"

"It\'s a cloaked missile, Vakno," Askit said flatly. "It\'s outside your
door. Did I forget to mention that \'you\'re not going anywhere\'?
Because you\'re not going anywhere."

"I didn\'t have anything to do with the disappearance of your friends,
Hacker," Vakno told him, pointedly not moving from her spot. If what he
said was true, and she currently had no reason to disbelieve him, she
didn\'t have any place to move *to*. Normally, had she been threatened
in her own office, she could have countered with equal threats, or
threats that far outweighed the slight, but right now she was being held
hostage by her own machines, controlled by a Corti who was already
ostracised by his own kind, and had access to a human who did absurd
things like attack planets.

"I don\'t care whether you were *responsible*, Vakno," Askit replied. "I
don\'t care if you were behind the whole thing. But Adrian *does*, do
you understand? *I\'m* interested in him getting back to what\'s
important, and sorry to say that it isn\'t *you*."

"You want information," Vakno interpreted. Threats were one thing, and
so was vengeance, but it seemed that, like most people, the Hacker was
coming to her for what she traded in.

"Chir, Keffa, and Grznk," Askit said bluntly. "Not to mention the
Vaulting Star. Where would we find them?"

"Chir and Keffa were taken by corporate forces," Vakno told him. The
information only had an eighty--percent chance of being true, but she
judged that it was more important right now to tell the Hacker what she
knew. Her own revenge could come later. "As for Grznk -- the Corti
doctor once abducted by Adrian Saunders, I presume -- I have no idea
where either he or the Vaulting Star are located."

"That\'s not the answer I was hoping for," Askit mused. "Finding Grznk
is a priority."

"All I know is that the events coincided," Vakno told him. "It seems
near certain that they are related. That\'s all I know, I promise you."

The sentry bots didn\'t respond. She waited a little longer, and still
they failed to respond. She tried to move around a little, and found
that they did not follow her.

"Sentries," she instructed, speaking with deliberate slowness. "Shut
down."

This time they verbalised their errors in their typical machine tones.
"Data transfer in progress. Shutdown queued."

"Terminate data transfer!" she ordered immediately, running around to
her console. The command was followed immediately, followed by the
shutdown of both her bots.

Now she was faced with the decision of escaping while she could and
getting away from her compromised robots and the cloaked missile just
outside of her door, or by determining just how much of her information
had been stolen.

Vakno was a professional. She chose the latter.

⁂

**Superior Firepower, subverted Hierarchy Command Cruiser**

**Xayn, son of Xagh**

"Who are they?" Xayn hissed quietly, crouching into hiding alongside the
small grey alien with a large head. "This vessel is supposed to be
cloaked, was it not?"

"This vessel *is* cloaked," the small grey alien replied rather testily.
"We\'re being boarded by somebody capable of figuring out where we are
anyway."

"Do you have any thoughts on who is doing so?" Xayn asked again. An
eagerness for battle, to prove himself his father\'s son was burning
within him, but his father had always cautioned him to know when to
fight his battles; that was the difference between a fighter and a
champion.

"Given how easily they have intercepted us, I\'d consider it most likely
to be the Hierarchy involved," the little alien replied. "That means
that, if they\'re prepared for us, they\'ll have a small army armed with
the deadliest weapons on offer. If they know that Adrian isn\'t here,
then they\'re probably not expecting much in the way of resistance."

"We will need to know more of these forces before we show them the error
of their ways," Xayn determined. "Those airborne camera units..."

"Are already scanning the area," the little alien finished. "And that
doesn\'t bode well. We\'ve definitely been breached, and I\'m noticing
that doors are being opened, but I\'m not seeing any movement. It seems
likely that our enemy is also cloaked."

"That is unfortunate," said Xayn. "Perhaps we should destroy this vessel
and our enemies in the process?"

"I\'m not destroying *my ship*," the little alien hissed back, then grew
more thoughtful. "But that doesn\'t mean I\'m not willing to damage it a
little."

"If you are intending to cause a reactor leak, I must tell you that I am
not immune to radiation," Xayn informed him. "Although I have little
doubt that it would accomplish your victory."

The little alien scowled at him. "I was going to use the cloaked
missiles *inside* the ship."

Xayn studied the little grey face. "That is crazy."

"*That\'s* crazy?!" the little alien demanded, disbelief filling his
voice for some reason. "You just suggested irradiating the entire vessel
along with everyone on it!"

"Then tell me more about what their likely plans are," Xayn instructed
him. "My brain--matter is the soft, absorbent material that is ready to
accept your knowledge."

"You say terrible things!" the little grey alien informed him. "As for
their plans... they\'ll head for the reactor and the command deck, try
to get control over intra--ship sensors. That\'s ship--boarding basics,
and nobody has done it differently until humans showed up."

"Then if we allow them to do these things, we will be doomed to a fate
equal or exceeding the terribleness of death?" Xayn persisted, and
waited for the perplexed little alien to nod his confirmation.

"Good," Xayn said, breaking into a predatory grin. "Then it seems that I
have a plan..."

⁂

**Superior Firepower, subverted Hierarchy Command Cruiser**

**Shock Troop Leader Vavis**

"Tight formations," Vavis instructed his squad. "We do this just like
the Gaoian vessel. Green Team has the Reactor, we have the Command Deck.
Execute any crew on sight, none of them are ours this time around."

"Report says that it should just be the Corti hacker," Adil reminded
them. He was Vavis\' nephew on his sister\'s side, and still new to
serving in the mercenary corps, so unless Vavis wanted to have some
rather pointed discussions with his sister he\'d been forced into doing
babysitting. Adil was improving, albeit slowly, which was the only
reason Vavis hadn\'t arranged for the kind of accident that got a young
Chehnasho retired to civilian life on a permanent basis.

"Don\'t believe everything you read," Vavis told him as they progressed
down the first corridor of the strangely constructed vessel. "The amount
of times the employer hasn\'t got their shit together is roughly
one--hundred percent."

Colphis laughed behind him, the deep croak of an old Chehnasho warrior.
He\'d been with Vavis for as long as he\'d been running the company, and
they\'d survived some bad runs of luck together; besides Vavis himself,
Colphis was uniquely endowed with bitter experience when it came to
working under inadequate information.

"Anything show up on the ECM field?" he asked his old comrade. "It\'d be
nice to know how quiet we\'ve been."

"Some hovercams tried sweeping us," Colphis reported after checking his
datapad. "Smart use of tools. The rest of it is fairly smooth, if you
don\'t count the doors."

"They\'re able to see them opening?" Vavis asked, mentally cursing the
oversight. Knowing which doors were opening was as good as knowing where
the incursion force was at all times.

"They can," Colphis replied. "Not that I\'ve seen any more hovercams
sweeping the location. The data--jammers might have been sufficient."

"Do you really think so?" Vavis asked.

Colphis croaked out another laugh. "Nope."

Vavis sighed. "Didn\'t think so. Let the other team know, there might be
a way to use that kind of information to our advantage. Maybe we
could--"

There was a clang, and they all froze.

"What was that?" Adil whispered nervously.

"Probably something that wants to kill us," Colphis informed him. "But
maybe it\'s just a Dizi rat."

Another clang, louder this time.

"Big Dizi rat..." Adil mused.

They kept moving, but more slowly, ready for anything that might appear.
Then they came to the door.

It clanged.

"There\'s something on the other side!" Adil hissed, his fear evident in
his voice.

"Foolishness," Vavis replied. "Why would the targets be banging on their
own door?"

He looked to Colphis, who held the portable scanner. "*Is* there someone
on the other side?"

Colphis looked over his datapad. "No lifeforms within (ten metres)."

Vavis looked back to his nephew. "There you are then," he said. "Open
the door."

Adil hesitated, but was hurried along under Vavis\' glare. If the layout
of this vessel was anything like standard vessels, this door would lead
to a large staging room of some kind.

"Be ready," Vavis instructed as the door opened, his weapon drawn. They
were over--prepared, knowing that a human could arrive while they were
still working, and had heavier weaponry and combat suits than they would
otherwise concern themselves with. The suits they wore were
custom--made, and would stand up to *three* successive anti--tank gun
blasts before the built--in kinetics failed.

They were confident, but they were experienced, and when the door opened
and they were faced by a strange, reptilian alien wearing no armour at
all, and carrying only a very unimpressive looking weapon, Vavis\'s
first action was to take aim.

He clicked that something was wrong about the time he noticed the way it
*grinned* at him, leathery lips drawn back to reveal teeth as sharp as a
Vulza\'s... and come to think of it, the whole creature in general put
him in mind of a bipedal Vulza.

The order to open fire rose within his throat, crossing his lips a
moment later, his fingers already beginning to pull the trigger. Vavis
knew that there were faster men, Five--Skulls Zripob for example, but by
Chehnash standards Vavis was pretty damned quick on the draw.

The strange, reptilian alien was unfortunately faster still.

⁂

**Superior Firepower, subverted Hierarchy Command Cruiser**

**Xayn, son of Xagh**

Xayn bellowed his bestial laugh as he put the Zheron gun through its
paces, letting it get good and hot before letting the weapon rest. The
corpses of his enemies, some sort of amphibians wearing heavy armour,
were reduced to a mess of chunky flesh mingling with molten hull by the
time he\'d finished.

He turned to the small, grey alien huddling in cover beside him and
laughed again. "Did you see the look on their faces!? That\'s what
V\'Straki workmanship will do! So good that it lasts sixty--five million
years!"

"It\'s been in stasis with you for most of that," the little alien
replied. "And I must say, when you said \'then it seems that I have a
plan\', I was expecting something more than throwing junk at a door
until they investigated it and then killing them all in barrage of
deadly... whatever that was."

Xayn looked down at the little alien, somewhat confused. "I am not very
inventive. It just seemed easiest to slaughter our enemies all at once."

"Yes," the little alien conceded, peering out from cover at the dead
invaders. "It does seem to be the case, even if you did send off part of
my ship with them. What exactly does that weapon discharge?"

"The Zheron gun is a sophisticated V\'Strak weapon," Xayn said, proudly
remembering his father\'s lectures on matters of war. "Eclipsed only by
the annihilation engines of the starships. The Zheron gun fires
self--encapsulated packets of ultra--high energy, essentially using the
power of the rounds themselves to maintain the encapsulation, but it
also allows for spread fire as you saw today. This model lacks the
cooling components that would allow for indefinite firing, but it means
that I can use it in a single hand, thereby freeing my second hand for
other tasks such as using another Zheron gun. Is this explanation to
your satisfaction?"

The little alien hesitated for a moment before giving an uncertain
answer. "Yes?"

"Excellent," Xayn enthused. "Because there\'s still one more boarding
group to bring vengeful death to. Mark my words, small and grey Askit,
we shall deliver their ruined corpses to their families so that none
will dare to defy our greatness."

"I\'m not sure the couriers would send that," the little alien replied.
"And in any case, I think it would be a very good idea if we could
capture one alive."

Xayn nodded in agreement, pleased by the wisdom shown by the small grey
alien. "Yes. We will record the screams of his torture and deliver them
to his family--"

"I was thinking we could ask him where Grznk and the Vaulting Star
were," the little alien corrected. "Since we still need him to protect
the galaxy from whatever you\'re carrying."

Once again Xayn considered this, and found the small alien\'s words to
be wise. "That," he conceded, "could also be of use."
:::
