# S - Road to Hell
***Salvage***

---

Adrian still could not believe that the Celzi Fleet Master had actually
gone so far as to give them a ship, albeit a small one, just so that
they could fly away in it. He had to hand it to Jen for convincing old
Big Bird to trust them, for making him believe that they were all
actually on the level and willing to do the job he was employing them to
do. Big Bird wasn\'t a complete idiot, and was obviously hoping to get a
lot more out of them than he put in, but it still must have required
some smooth talking.

The ship itself was well maintained and well provisioned, but it wasn\'t
large. It had an FTL drive and enough room for a dozen people -- if you
didn\'t mind doubling up on the six bunks -- but what it did lack was
space for a decent amount of food; hardly a surprise given that aliens
seemed to eat about as much food as a large hamster but still damned
inconvenient.

They\'d still taken the time to lay a false trail, however, and had made
a first warp to deep, unmapped space before changing direction and
pushing on to Cimbrean. If Big Bird was running some kind of underhanded
plot -- it wasn\'t likely but it wouldn\'t pay to underestimate him --
there wasn\'t much use in giving him any kind of information he didn\'t
need to have.

"Ach, I\'m telling you," Jen said chirpily, "it\'s a *palace*. It\'s
even got a whole big room for this incredible bath!"

"Oh, and would this bath be big enough for two, by any chance?" Adrian
asked her, and the look on her face told him that she was imagining the
same things he was. There was, after all, a lot that could be done in a
bathtub that wasn\'t washing, and this would be their first chance to...
everything.

"That sounds a lot like a high class Ciavel Birthing Retreat," Askit
mused. "They keep those big pools to lay their spawn in, and keep them
there for incubation. The water needs to be pure and kept at a constant
temperature for the mix to gelatinise."

Adrian turned back to look at Askit while Jen stared straight ahead,
tapping her fingers on her console just like anybody might when they\'ve
just heard something they didn\'t want to hear.

"Yeah, mate," Adrian said to Askit. "I\'m sure that\'s what it *sounds*
like, but what it actually *is* is a really nice bath."

"I\'m a big girl, Adrian," Jen said tersely, "I can handle the fact that
I\'ve been taking wonderful baths in some sort of alien slime breeding
vat that\'s spawned god knows how many goo monsters."

"The Ciavel themselves aren\'t actually *made* of goo, they just secrete
it to protect themselves against impurities in the water they\'re in,"
Askit explained. "They\'re also peaceful and herbivorous, so for a
*human* to be calling them monsters is beyond ironic."

"That is honestly the most disgusting thing I could imagine has been in
my bathtub," Jen told him. "You can stop talking about it any time you
like, do you know that?"

The navigator sensors clicked for attention, and received it. "We\'re
about to drop back into normal space," Adrian announced. "No problems
with the field, not that I\'d have any idea what to do about them in a
bucket like this."

As if on cue, the small vessel dropped back into normal space above the
verdant world of Jen\'s description.

"Here we are!" she said, flashing them a grin. "Time to send a fair
hello."

She turned to the communications console, and tapped in the few commands
needed to link in to the planetary receivers. "Hello down there, this is
Jennifer Delaney. Beautiful, intelligent, back from the brink of
death--"

"Ever so slightly full of herself," Adrian put in.

Jen shot him a teasing grin. "Who\'ve I got down there?"

She waited a moment, still smiling for whatever reply she thought would
be coming. Then she waited a moment longer, and then another, but the
silence on the airwaves persisted.

She frowned and tried again. "Cimbrean, this is Jennifer Delaney, answer
please."

"I\'ve just done a sensor scan," Askit announced, his voice grave enough
to tell them what he\'d found, even without knowing the details. "It
isn\'t good."

"Send to mine," Jen said, requesting the same data. It seemed she\'d
picked up a few phrases in her time amongst the aliens.

"Sending now," Askit replied. "Orbital structure shows signs of having
been systematically destroyed. Somebody didn\'t want a reclaim team to
make much use of it."

"No..." Jen whispered, her eyes widening at the rest of the data. "The
palace... it\'s gone..."

"Signs of orbital bombardment," Askit added. "The whole structure is in
ruin. Lots of burned out vessels down there as well."

"I\'m taking us down," Adrian told them. "There might be survivors."

"From this?" Askit asked, but went silent at the glare Adrian gave him.

"There might be," Adrian reiterated. "I\'ll have us down there in a few
minutes, Jen."

Jen nodded, her face in her hands. She was starting to break again, and
it was hard to say how much more she could take before she broke
completely; she\'d already taken more than a lot of people needed, and
sometimes it was easy to mistake old scars for strength, when all they
meant was that once upon a time a little part of you had died.

Adrian took a deep breath, not sure what to say. "I\'m... not good at
times like this," he admitted, "I don\'t know what to say, or I say the
wrong thing and everybody thinks I\'m some kind of arsehole. They might
be right, but the people down there... some of them were my friends too,
and I\'m not going to just give up on them without being *sure*. And if
they have come to harm, Jen... well, then I will find the people who
have hurt them, and I will fuck them up, and then I won\'t have to worry
about them hurting anybody else I care about."

Jen looked up from her hands when he had finished, tears were welling in
her eyes, but the softness in them was notable by its absence. "There\'s
just one thing you\'re wrong about, Adrian," she said, her voice hard.
"It\'ll be *both* of us fucking them up."

---

**Cimbrean**

Hrbrd had watched the departure of the remaining pirates from his little
cave, not really comprehending the finality of their departure until the
orbital bombardment began. It hadn\'t stopped until, presumably, the
orbital defenses had run their ammunition feeds dry, and by then half of
the night had passed.

The pirates did not return, but Hrbrd took the opportunity to
investigate the ruins. The palace, which he had thought it rather more
likely to be a Ciavel facility, had been entirely obliterated, and along
with it all vessels and stockpiles on the surface.

Here and there were some fragmented remains, and in places the
Allebenellin suits stood silent watch over a destroyed landscape. It
was, in a way, testament to their ruggedness that they had continued to
stand through the bombardment, although had any of them suffered a
direct hit Hrbrd doubted that they would have remained so. The suits
were built to last, but they weren\'t built to last through a strike
from a starship\'s coilbolt.

"Well, Hrbrd," he muttered to himself, "this is a another fine mess
you\'ve gotten yourself into. Stranded alone on a Class Four planet with
practically no tools and no prospects of a friendly starship coming by."

He was, as Adrian would have put it, \'royally fucked\'. The only way it
could ever get worse would be if the damned Hierarchy decided to launch
their second wave, and cooked him like they had done half of the
pirates. Two days ago he had located the corpse of a Rauwryhr female in
a burned out tree as he\'d been foraging, an unpleasant discovery. The
Rauwryhr weapons designer had been a pleasant individual, brilliant
within her field and had always treated Hrbrd with respect. She had not
deserved to die like that -- in Hrbrd\'s considerations nobody did --
but he was sure it was not a random killing. To have found her out here,
they would have to have been searching for her specifically; there were
signs of the body having been destroyed before the tree had been burned,
torn open for whatever reason there might have been to do such a thing.

That meant something, Hrbrd was sure of it; none of the other pirates
had been treated in that manner, only the Rauwryhr. When he got off this
planet he\'d have to start investigating that... if he got off this
planet. It wasn\'t looking good, unless he expected to completely build
his own starship, but Hrbrd didn\'t put that level of optimism on his
ability to transform a garden planet into an industrial powerhouse with
only his own two hands.

Hrbrd hadn\'t even bothered to try; instead he just moved his camp to
the shattered remains of the palace, and waited for rescue or for death.

When the Celzi personal transport arrived, it seemed as though the
latter had arrived.

When Adrian Saunders and Jennifer Delaney stepped forth, he still
didn\'t think his chances were all that good.

Adrian smiled broadly upon picking him out from all the broken ruins.
"Her--bird!" he called out. "You\'re about the last person I\'d have
imagined surviving all *this*. Can we offer you a ride out of here?"

---

It had been so long since Askit had been around another Corti he had
begun to forget that he wasn\'t the only one. In real terms it had only
been a few weeks since they\'d left Cavaras, with its extensive Corti
population, but in personal experience that time had stretched on
forever.

Sitting around the dinner table with a disgraced Dominion Councillor who
smelled of woodland creature was therefore somewhat confronting. This
had been the powerful man who had plucked Askit from the little prison
cell that had been his to rot in, and had given him work to do; the same
powerful man who had very nearly started a corporate war and forced a
government crackdown on the corporations. Now he was nothing -- less
than nothing, in fact, since Askit could find no reasonable thing the
Corti Councillor actually contributed to anything right now. Perhaps he
had some sort of hidden ability beyond being good at politics? One could
only hope.

"Trix is dead?" Adrian asked, plainly distraught by the news. Jen seemed
equally so, but now neither of them showed sorrow. There was anger
there, though, as hot as Askit had ever seen it burn, but somehow, while
they were together, it did not explode as it usually did.

"Trycrur was, I believe, purposefully murdered," Hrbrd told them. "Her
body was torn open. Only *her* body."

"She once told me she had all of these designs stored somewhere safe,"
Jen said after they\'d sat pondering this information for a while.
"Could she have meant inside of her body?"

"That\'s as good an explanation as any we\'re likely to receive," Hrbrd
admitted. "It means that the Hierarchy--"

"The Hierarchy?!" Askit interrupted. "The one from all of those
conspiracies?"

"Less fictional than I would have hoped," Hrbrd replied flatly. "You
only need to look around to see the kind of influence they have. All of
these ultra--suits with Allebenellin troopers? How much do you imagine
that would cost? A price equivalent to a mid--sized planet, is how
much!"

Askit thought over all of the information he had parsed in his younger
days, back when he couldn\'t get enough information to quench his thirst
for knowledge. Even back then the conspiracies about the Hierarchy were
like those that children tell each other, a secret organisation in
charge of everything and in possession of advanced technology... it was
absurd, and yet the evidence was irrefutable.

"Sort of like the Illuminati on Earth," Jen had said, when the details
had been explained to her. "Except they really *don\'t* exist. I think."

"It\'s impossible though," Askit stated. "How can an organisation like
that exist without the knowledge getting out? And for how long?"

"Well," Adrian mused, "you *have* heard of it before, right? But if
they\'ve wrapped the details up with enough bullshit, it gets hard to
tell fact from fiction."

"Are you suggesting that they put the information out there themselves?"
Askit asked testily, then thought about what he was saying. "Because
that would be brilliant... you could control the official story, make it
something nobody but crazy people would believe."

"That is also my measure of it," Hrbrd replied. "There is no way for me
to release my information without everybody thinking I\'ve gone mad, as
well as being a wanted criminal."

"We\'re still going to need a way to fight them," Adrian said. "We
can\'t let them do whatever they want to us. They need to *pay*."

Jen nodded fiercely, and Askit was a little disturbed by their combined
eagerness to throw themselves at such a powerful organisation in the
hope of inflicting some harm.

"You\'ll recall what happened the last time we threatened them?" Hrbrd
replied. "What you\'ll receive is a reprisal an order of magnitude
greater than what came before."

"They\'re not invincible," Adrian said. "They didn\'t like it when we
were trying to bring the war to an end, so we just need to help bring
the war to an end. That\'s a place to start."

"You *just* need to help bring the war to an end?" Hrbrd asked, bemused.
"Unless my estimation of your abilities are gravely mistaken--"

"When I was working for *you*," Adrian sharply interrupted, "I had to do
things a certain way. That is no longer the case."

"We can use this disaster here," Jen added. "We tell Big Bird that *we*
were responsible for all of this. We work with the Celzi until we can
find a way to strike back."

"You\'re suggesting that *I* work with the Celzi?" Hrbrd asked, aghast.
"I was a Dominion War Councillor! I was the leader of their enemy!"

"And now you\'re a defector," Jen informed him. "Earth wanted this
planet for their own, they wanted to make *me* their colonial Governor.
We should still do that."

"But everything here has been destroyed," Hrbrd protested. "What could
they possibly--"

"This planet is in the Far Reaches, right?" Adrian asked. "Out of the
way enough for it to go unnoticed. We show Big Bird the wreckage, he
goes away happy that the problem has been dealt with, and everybody else
finds out that everything that used to be here isn\'t around anymore.
That means *nobody* is going to be looking for anything out here."

"Where *are* the others, though?" Jen wondered. "You said they left, so
they must have gone somewhere."

Hrbrd sighed. "I don\'t have any notion of where they could be, they
left me behind because I was too busy hiding from everything that was
going on. They must think I\'m dead."

"We\'ll find them, Jen," Adrian reassured her. He *was* sure they would,
since he doubted that they\'d just give up and go home after
successfully repelling an invasion like this. They\'d clearly destroyed
everything they couldn\'t take with them as a big \'fuck you\' to
whoever came looking, and those weren\'t the actions of people who\'d
just run back home.

"Until then we\'ll have to lean on the Celzi to get us what we want,"
she replied. "We *have* to get a wormhole beacon if we want any kind of
help from Earth."

"We need to get a message to *Earth* as well, then," Adrian added. It
was hard to avoid making his complete disdain for the idea too apparent,
but it was an entirely unavoidable necessity and it didn\'t matter
whether he wanted anything to do with Earth or not.

Jen frowned at him, troubled eyes locked with his. "One day you\'ll tell
me why you don\'t like Earth."

He nodded, and took her hand in his. He smiled at feeling the
difference, in size and in roughness; even with her recent callouses,
hers were dainty by comparison. "One day. Soon, I promise."

Adrian turned to look at the bemused pair of Corti sitting across from
them. "So," he said, "start by telling us how we steal a wormhole
beacon."

---

**Aratas, Celzi Heavy Cruiser, Low Orbit of Cimbrean**

The results of his experiment were so far beyond what Cizziz had hoped
for that he wasn\'t sure what to do. The Celzi Alliance *had* sent his
fleet out to deal with an unparalleled pirate menace, and technically he
had done that. He just hadn\'t used the fleet to do it.

"Absolutely everything has been destroyed," he murmured to himself.
"Even the Orbital Defenses... How was this even *possible*?"

"The scans agree with the statement from the humans," Xova replied, as
efficient with her information as ever. She hadn\'t made a secret about
being as unhappy with the result as Cizziz himself was, but he only had
himself to blame. He had, after all, taken into his employment a pair of
individuals known to have brought destruction to a well--protected Corti
core world, and hadn\'t explicitly told them *not* to destroy every last
thing.

"They\'ve also managed to return with a Corti *defector*!" Cizziz
continued, completely flabbergasted by the fact. "War Councillor Hrbrd
of the Dominion, no less!"

"The intelligence reports mark him as a criminal working against the
Corti Directorate," Xova said. "He\'s probably just fleeing
imprisonment, rather than coming over to our side because he agrees with
us."

"He *hasn\'t* come over to our side, though," Cizziz replied. "He\'s
gone over to the *humans*. They just happen to be working for *us* right
now, and \'En--Jay\' insists that they\'ll be very unhappy if we try and
take their resource from them."

"There are only two of the humans!" Xova protested. "There\'s no reason
to do what they demand?"

Cizziz was incredulous. "No reason!? You call what they did to Cimbrean
*no reason*!? Adjutant, I am not afraid to admit that I am not inclined
to make such people angry with me."

There hadn\'t been a lot of information gleaned from the humans about
the details on their assault, but the matter--of--fact way that En--Jay
-- a name she seemed to wish to stick with -- had informed them about
what had been done had been enough, especially when combined with what
the scans revealed.

"They have asked me if we have any more work for them," Cizziz
continued. "It is difficult to find a valid reason to deny them."

"Mass slaughter isn\'t a valid reason?" Xova asked. "What would they
possibly need to do if *that* is not enough?"

Clucking his lament, Cizziz considered how best to explain it. So few
Gephk -- or any other species for that matter -- could appreciate the
political intricacies of this kind of situation, and in spite of her
intelligence Xova was not amongst them.

"Alliance Command will not see it that way," he said. "They will see a
brilliantly successful mission with all the casualties on the other
side. They will see a way to use these humans, and we both know what
even a single human can do to change the course of this war."

"You\'re speaking of the ultra harnesses," she surmised. The origin of
those pieces of equipment was not unknown to most officers; the series
of brutal defeats that had been suffered in the initial days of their
deployment were widely talked about. It had been a stroke of luck that
the Alliance had managed to seize a shipment so early on, and the rapid
construction and deployment of their own was a powerful testament to
Alliance ingenuity.

"That and other things," he said. "There used to be rules in this war.
We have a human to thank for turning it into what it is today."

"So there really is no choice?" she asked, but by her tone he could tell
it wasn\'t a question.

"Thanks to those pirates the war is at a critical stage," Cizziz
replied. "We cannot afford to give up such a potent tool simply because
we have morals."

He didn\'t bother to think about where that kind of argument could take
him. He knew it wasn\'t anywhere good and if he didn\'t keep thinking of
the greater good he would be unable to do whatever needed doing.

"I\'ve decided," he said. "Have them allowed back aboard. Give them
clothes, food and proper rooms -- although I want them under guard at
all times -- and hopefully they\'ll feel enough gratitude that they
won\'t turn butcher on whoever else we meet."

He wished he could be sure, but it wasn\'t as though he had much choice
in keeping them on. The only thing he could do was hope his morals could
rub off on a pair of Deathworld savages.

And, for what they were worth, he could hope to pass along his good
intentions.


