# S - The Winning Team
***Salvage***

---

Jen had broken down into an uncontrolled fit of giggling, while Adrian
sat by and grinned broadly at his own jokes, and at Jen\'s reaction to
them. It made him feel good to be able to make someone laugh, to be able
to *hear* human laughter from somebody other than himself after what
seemed like years.

"You," she said, struggling to maintain her composure, "you should get a
job in tourism!"

"Yeah, right," he replied. "I can see it right now, \'Come to Space:
It\'s Full of Arseholes.\'"

"You know we\'re all in space as well," she said gesturing broadly to
indicate the two of them as well as Trycrur and Chir who were currently
busy fixing up the last details of the power supply. Jen and Adrian had
just finished their portion of the labour, and were currently slumped
into chairs in what had become the R&R area, both of them completely
buggered but not yet ready to pass out.

"Well," he said, "I might be the only arsehole on this ship, but as
it\'s mine I reckon it counts for everyone."

"Aw, don\'t say that," she protested, "you\'re only kind of an
arsehole."

He grinned. "Thanks."

"I don\'t know about that," Chir said, entering the room and filling it
with the pungent aroma of sweat and industrial lubricant. "But at least
he\'s on our side, so that counts for something."

"Nice thing to hear coming from someone who smells like a wet dog that
got into a fight with a sex shop," Adrian retorted, and was pleased to
see Jen burst into another fit of laughter.

"Sex... shop?" Chir asked in equal parts horror and morbid curiosity.
"You purchase sex in such a place?"

"Nah mate," Adrian said, "you, uh..."

He trailed off as he saw Jen poised to listen to his answer, her eyes
aglitter and her full lips already hinting at a smile...

He cleared his throat; another joke then. "You don\'t get those outside
of Amsterdam."

It wasn\'t a very good joke, but she was already primed for laughter and
broke back into giggling like a schoolgirl.

Chir looked between them. "There is something very wrong with your
species."

"Almost makes you agree with the barrier," Trycrur said, joining them at
last and reeking in much the same way as Chir did. "But I thought you
should all know that we\'re ready to go."

Adrian pulled himself out of his seat. "The FTL?"

"Ready when you are," Trycrur confirmed. "Give the order, Shiplord."

Adrian ignored Jen\'s snigger, not dignifying it with a response. He\'d
already been harangued about how close it was to \'shitlord\', and he
wasn\'t about to let her make him feel awkward in this moment of
triumph.

"Right then," he said, full of trepidation. "Here\'s hoping nothing
explodes."

Chir and Trycrur stared at him coldly.

"You should stop saying things like that," Chir said. "It\'s like the
kiss of death to our success."

"You\'re not wrong," Adrian said with a grimace, regretting his
ill--chosen words already. He winced as he continued. "Zhadersil, report
power status."

"Shiplord Adrian Saunders," the Zhadersil responded, giving rise to a
new bout of laughter from Jen, "ship power is at ninety--two percent."

"Confirm navigation bearing is set," Adrian continued.

"Navigation bearing set to \<error on local data... importing...
successfully imported\> Vdltkzr system, orbital distance of one
astronomical unit."

"So far so good," Adrian said, his sense of worry growing, then noticing
that the error had caused the other three to trade significant glances
of concern.

"Don\'t worry, that\'s a minor glitch from Bekmer\'s workaround," he
told them.

Chir grunted dubiously. "You\'ll understand why that doesn\'t prevent me
from worrying."

"It worked last time, it\'ll work this time," Adrian told him, although
he didn\'t really expect it to allay their fears. It didn\'t really
allay his either, but it was too late to deal with any issues there.
They could take another look at fixing the navigation system properly
once they were out of danger.

"Sensor contact," the Zhadersil informed him without prompting. "Two
unknown vessels detected. Trajectory projects inbound flight path."

"We\'ve got two ships coming at us?" Adrian repeated, surprised at the
Zhadersil actually being helpful at this point. "What are they?"

"Unknown configuration," the Zhadersil replied. That was not surprising,
its database was sixty five million years out of date.

"I doubt they\'re friendly," Chir said. "Nobody we meet is ever
friendly."

"Zhadersil, how long before they\'re in weapons range?" Adrian asked.

"Both vessels currently in targeting range for Devastator cannon," the
Zhadersil replied.

"Uh... good to know," Adrian replied. "What about *their* weapons?"

"Unknown."

"Commence charging FTL. Ready Devastator cannon and reinforce shields."

"Warning, not enough power," the Zhadersil responded, "Devastator cannon
will be readied at decreased rate."

"Fine," Adrian replied. "How long until FTL is ready to go?"

"FTL ready to engage in one minute. Devastator cannon ready in under one
minute."

"You know, it\'s kind of nice to actually have a working ship for once,"
Trycrur commented to Chir.

"Don\'t speak too soon," Chir advised, "there\'s still a whole (minute)
for things to go terribly wrong."

"Well then," Adrian said, looking to Chir, "I guess it\'s time to stall!
Zhadersil, patch me through to one of those ships!"

‚ÅÇ

**Awplvrs, Celzi Alliance Cruiser, approaching unknown vessel**

Ship Master Vntlkrp surveyed the false light imagery of local space, the
debris of the missing Alliance light cruiser highlighted along with the
enormous bulk of an unknown alien vessel. His first feeling that it was
a Dominion secret weapon, but scans had shown that it was old,
spectacularly old, and that had given him a whole new level of wariness.
What was this ship from the distant past, and what had it done that had
resulted in the destruction of a Light Cruiser and all hands?

"Ready weapons," he instructed his weapons tech. "Keep them ready, but
we don\'t want to fire quite yet. Not until we know what we\'re up
against."

"Ship Master," called out the sensor tech. "I\'m showing a mixture of
technology on board. I have already identified Dominion, Corti, and...
Hunter vessels present within."

"Hunter vessels?!" Vntlkrp repeated, swallowing cold dread. He hadn\'t
had the misfortune of coming face to face with any, but he\'d had to
clean up a station they\'d visited. All those dead, simply so the
Hunters could reach a single human.

"We\'re showing that multiple systems *are* charging," the sensor tech
continued. "Ship Master, they\'re readying weapons."

"They may have scanned us first," Vntlkrp replied. "They won\'t be able
to hit us from this distance. Tell the Ltrnflw to maintain distance but
stay in formation."

"Ship Master," called his comms tech. "I\'m receiving a signal on an
unusual band. It appears to be coming from that vessel."

Vntlkrp smiled inwardly, but maintained an expression of cool,
professional detachment. That was how you showed your men that you were
in control of the situation, even when you weren\'t. "No doubt they can
see they\'re outmatched," he said confidently. It might even be true,
but there was only one way to be sure. "Put it to main viewscreen."

He stepped in front of the camera that would return his image, looking
as bold and dashing as he could manage. That was the kind of image that
would strike fear into the hearts of the enemy.

Then the picture of a hairy--faced human came on--screen and Vntlkrp
faltered. Fortunately the reaction of his command crew was to gasp and
stare, so he suspected nobody noticed his own reaction.

"Attention alien vessels," the human said, speaking with such easy
confidence that Vntlkrp suddenly very worried. "I am going to offer you
a chance to surrender."

"You..." Vntlkrp choked, struggling to regain control of his tongue
along with the rest of his composure. "You\'re a human!"

"And you\'re a whatever--the--fuck--you--are!" the human replied,
curving its lips and baring some teeth in an obviously aggressive
showing. "Short explanation, I want your ships. How you leave them is up
to you."

"I am Ship Master Vntlkrp of the Celzi Alliance Cruiser, the Awplvrs,"
Vntlkrp replied fiercely. "We will not surrender to one of your kind! We
have our pride, and it would shame us to surrender without battle! I
have five thousand troops between these ships--"

"Look Ventilcrap," the human interrupted, probably purposefully
mispronouncing Vntlkrp\'s name in order to infuriate him, and Vntlkrp
was further annoyed to find it working marvelously. "I\'m going to be
honest. I have three other guys here."

"Ha!" Vntlkrp cried. "So few numbers--"

"In the last few months," the human rudely interrupted, "we\'ve killed
one thousand Hunters in a single battle, seized a Corti Heavy Explorer,
crippled a Dominion Cruiser and destroyed that Light Cruiser of yours
that\'s floating out there. No casualties on my side."

The human spoke with confidence, as though there was no doubt that it
was true, but Vntlkrp couldn\'t imagine that even a human was capable of
feats such as that. "You\'re lying!" he accused. "You found those ships!
A ruse to try and--"

The human was not paying attention, but seemed to be looking at someone
else off camera. "So everything\'s charged? Well, I think it\'s probably
time for a test firing, so if this works out maybe we can get these guys
to actually surrender?"

Vntlkrp looked at the techs on the command deck, and they all seemed to
be sharing awkward glances. Everybody knew that you didn\'t go telling
your enemy you were about to shoot them, especially not when you were so
far from weapons range.

The human looked back at the camera, both lips curved back to bare his
teeth fully. "Okay, Ventilcrap, I\'m going to give you another chance to
surrender before I test my big gun on your other ship there."

"I refuse!" Vntlkrp spat back. "We will make you pay for these threats,
I will personally--"

The human was looking away again. "Zhadersil, fire devastator cannon at
secondary vessel."

Vntlkrp froze, and all eyes turned towards the sensor tech.

The sensor tech paled. "Their weapon has discharged an unknown energy."

Vntlkrp steeled himself. "Not to worry," he said, "the Ltrnflw will
evade--"

"The energy moved at light speed, Ship Master," the sensor tech replied.
"They have already been hit."

"Damage?" Vntlkrp asked. He had a bad feeling that the human had perhaps
not been lying after all.

"No structural or system damage reported," the sensor tech replied, and
Vntlkrp relaxed. Perhaps it was not such a dangerous weapon after all.

"Huh..." the sensor tech continued, and not in the kind of tone that
provided any comfort. "Bio--monitors are failing."

"What do you mean failing?" Vntlkrp asked, his horror already mounting
at the answer he already knew. Bio--monitors rarely failed, and it was
impossible for them to all fail at once.

"None are recording life signs anymore..." the sensor tech reported. His
voice was flat, as dead as the crew of the Ltrnflw, and he raised his
gaze along with everyone else to look at the view screen.

The human was enjoying some kind of beverage, and tilted his head
nonchalantly. "Well," he said, "that\'s a bugger of a thing, isn\'t it?
So about that surrender?"

‚ÅÇ

**Zhadersil**

"I can\'t believe you just conquered two Alliance cruisers," Trycrur
said, in genuine, shocked disbelief. "What are you even going to do with
them!?"

Adrian shrugged. "We could strip them for parts, take their weapons and
cargo... that sort of thing."

"We don\'t have that sort of time," Chir replied. "Those ships will be
broadcasting their location on a set time interval."

"Then we take as much as we can as fast as we can," Jen interjected.
Adrian was amused to see a sort of strange excitement there that he
hadn\'t seen before. A fellow spirit of larceny revealed; he grinned.

"This is why we need more crew," Chir said. "Although this time we
really *are* like pirates."

"No," said Adrian firmly, a plan beginning to form,"although we *do*
need more crew. We\'re not going to just leave those vessels there,
though."

"Then what?" Chir asked. "The Celzi will come after them..."

"Not if we take them into Dominion space," Adrian said, a sly smile
creeping out onto his face. "What do you think the Dominion would say to
a gift of two fully functional Celzi cruisers?"

"They\'d probably be beside themselves in joy," Trycrur replied. "It
normally takes heavy boarding actions to get control of a vessel, and by
then it\'s usually completely wrecked from all the fighting."

"Well then," Adrian said, "it seems we have a way onto the Dominion\'s
payroll. Chir, I want you to contact your friend in a high place, it\'s
time to bring the concept of the Privateer to you primitive space men."

Chir turned to Trycrur with a frown. "You know, I know they *are*
speaking a different language, but it\'s times like these you can tell."

"We\'re going to be swashbucklers?" Jen asked, eyebrow raised but with
the slight edge of excitement and mad glee still there.

"Oh yes, Jen," Adrian said, planting a foot firmly on the seat of his
chair, and made a mental note to carry his fusion sword for occasions
such as this. "Buckles will definitely be swashed."


