---
title: A Time to Bond
---

# A Time to Bond

\

\

::: chapter
When a missile armed, the activation sequence produced an informative
beep. For a few moments the whole room was filled with beeping, and then
it was filled with silence. Heavy silence.

Nothing moved; they were waiting for the other shoe to drop.

Askit knew that if they detonated, the combined explosion would be
larger than he\'d ever seen before. Although if he thought about it, he
doubted he\'d see much of this one either.

"What..." he whispered, afraid that any thing louder might rouse the
warheads from their restless slumber, "what did you do?"

Adrian was continuing to stare at his hand. "No..." he said, his voice
wavering, "there\'s no way this was me. Maybe if it was just this one,
but not all of them."

"Right," said Askit. "That makes sense."

"Can you do something about it?" Adrian hissed, the level of his panic
clearly rising. He was a human, so of course he couldn\'t fully detach
himself like Askit could -- like Askit *had* -- so it was little wonder
that he was shitting himself. By the void, *Askit* was was a creature of
cold logic, and he was still shitting himself; cold logic wasn\'t very
helpful when it led you to the kind of conclusions that he was making.

"Something like?" Askit asked, uncertainly. He tried his best to think
of something he could do and came up short. "I... seem to have forgotten
everything I know."

Adrian cursed under his breath. "Fucking fantastic."

There was a sudden clunk from the missile under his hand, and they both
drew in a sharp breath, staring at the thing in wide--eyed horror.

The noise didn\'t replicate amongst the other missiles.

They turned to look at each other, and no words were spoken. Only the
sounds of trembling breaths made it over the link, which Askit imagined
wasn\'t that reassuring for either of them.

At the end of the munitions room there was a smaller door that did not
appear to be used for transporting the munitions to anywhere, and Askit
supposed that it was used for the crew, if there even *were* any, to
access the room. When that door hissed open, they both startled at the
unexpected intrusion, although Adrian\'s hand never left that missile.

They turned to stare at the door, and in a bizarre scene a single robot,
with what looked to be a basic kinetic pulse gun attached, trundled
through. It was such a strange thing to wander into an atmosphere of
incredible tension and danger that Adrian wheezed out a strained laugh.
"Here we fucking go..."

The robot did not seem to be in any sort of hurry, but Askit was
personally grateful for the distraction. The robot could kill him in one
shot, that was true, but compared to a room full of live explosives and
a psychotic human it somehow seemed an insignificant force.

It parked itself directly in front of Adrian -- of course, it was
*always* about Adrian -- and the optical sensor looked him up and down.

"Well, well... it seems the tables have turned, human," it said,
although the voice was far too organic to be produced by a machine. "Now
it is *I* who holds all of the gevlpitz!"

Askit stared at the combat robot, wondering who it was on the other
side, and wishing that Adrian was there with them. This at least
explained the munitions arming themselves, but it seemed a big gamble
from someone who was still aboard; only the insane or truly desperate
would make that kind of threat, but surely this was too early for this
level of escalation?

All the guessing in the world didn\'t help, of course; there wasn\'t
much of a choice being made available here, merely surrender or death,
and Askit wasn\'t sure that the Hierarchy were in the business of taking
prisoners. The alternative seemed pretty bleak though, so maybe it was
worth taking the--

"You can shove those gravel--pits up your arse, mate," Adrian replied,
and Askit noted that the waver in his voice was gone, replaced with an
edge of anger. "What\'s your name, fuckhead?"

"How dare you!" spat the machine. "You are my prisoner, and--"

"Name!" Adrian repeated, his anger rising. "I want to know whose arse
I\'m jamming this missile up."

The robot shot Adrian. It did the usual amount of nothing. "You savage
beast!" it accused. "How dare you address me in that way! I am
*Thirteen*, for all the good the knowledge will do you--"

Adrian whispered a quick message. "Do your thing mate, I\'m distracting
this arsehole."

"Right," Askit whispered back. He looked around for a hiding place, and
of course the only possibilities were behind explosives. That didn\'t
seem like the wisest of things to do, but it also seemed as though it
was going to be that sort of day.

"--and you will listen to what I have to say!" finished the robot.
Whoever was on the other end of it had just become extremely angry, and
Askit wondered if it had been wise to infuriate him. Surely they were in
enough trouble without pissing him off.

"It\'s time for the villain\'s exposition, is it?" Adrian asked, and not
for the first time Askit had no idea what in the void the human was
talking about. "Alright, let\'s fucking get this over with, I don\'t
have all day."

"Even for a savage," robo--Thirteen seethed, "you are extraordinarily
offensive! You are *beyond* infuriating, and I will take great
pleasure--"

"Mister Bond," Adrian interjected.

"--in taking you to pieces!" robo--Thirteen finished. "I expect you to
submit, or I\'ll be forced to locate any other survivors and perform the
same process upon them."

Askit didn\'t much like the sound of that, but the robot was clearly
focused on Adrian, so he took his chance to sneak around into hiding
where he could work. With Adrian taking care of the talking -- something
that Askit never thought he\'d be truly grateful for -- the tension had
been cut enough for Askit to remember just what it was that he could do,
and he started to do it.

"I don\'t think you\'ll do that," Adrian replied, cold and hard. "I
think that you\'ll be too dead to try it, and do you know what else I
think, Mister Thirteen?"

Robo--Thirteen hesitated. "What do you think?"

Askit nearly glanced up at that. Had he heard actual *fear* in
robo--Thirteen\'s voice? How was he being intimidated when *he* was the
one who controlled the munitions, the ship, and their fate? He wasn\'t
even in the same room!

But there were better things for his attention to be focused on; the
munitions were wirelessly connecting to the weapons system. Before he\'d
edited their systems manually to get them to recognise him as their
controller, but that wasn\'t an option here. He needed to get them all
at once, and fortunately it wouldn\'t take that much effort to spoof
them into thinking his little datapad was the weapons system instead.

"I think you\'re afraid," Adrian told the robot. "I think you *know*
that something like a little explosion won\'t stop me."

"This... this is enough explosive power to destroy this entire ship!"
robo--Thirteen protested, his own anger growing. "It\'ll certainly take
care of a human, even an exceptional one!"

Askit smiled wickedly to himself as the munitions began prompting him
for further commands. He had access, and he still had a copy of the
configuration files he\'d edited earlier. This time, though, he needed
to be a little more delicate in the operation. Just a little more
time...

"Thank you for the compliment," Adrian said. "Not every day I get called
\'exceptional\'."

"I wasn\'t intending to compliment you!" robo--Thirteen snapped. "It was
a statement of simple fact!"

The configuration files looked as though they were written by a Corti.
That was good news, Corti programmers were pedantic about impeccable
commenting for all code and files, and that made breaking them all the
easier. It was very helpful when you wanted to make a bomb *appear*
armed, when it actually wasn\'t, and all Askit needed to do was switch
some ones for zeros.

"Yeah," mused Adrian, "I am pretty fucking amazing. You should come down
here, I\'ll show you how amazingly I can jam this missile up your
fucking clacker."

"I decline," hissed robo--Thirteen. "And... aha! It seems that you\'ve
run out of time for this little diversion. I\'ll have you know that
I\'ve transmitted a backup of my mind to Central, and I want you to know
that while my body may die, *I* will live on. I just needed to keep you
down here for long enough to finish the job, and now... now I can
finally throw everything I\'ve got at you!"

Askit distributed the files to the munitions, and as per their
programming they began to reboot. But they didn\'t beep, they didn\'t do
anything except look just as deadly as they had before. "Job\'s done,"
he whispered over the link. "You owe me."

"I\'d like to see you do it," Adrian continued, not giving any outward
indication of having heard. "Why not do it then? Blow us all to
pieces?!"

"You\'re... you\'re insane!" robo--Thirteen spat. "But as you demand it,
I will comply!"

There was a pause.

"Nothing happened..." robo--Thirteen said in confusion, apparently
speaking to itself.

"Oh, *something* happened, fuckface," Adrian replied, removing his hand
from the missile and picking up his pipe. "The fucking game just
changed."

‚ÅÇ

Thirteen had disconnected from the sentry as the human had begun to
destroy it, completely ignoring the kinetic pulse shots that would have
killed any other species. He was utterly horrified and rendered almost
catatonic at the turn of events; he had thought that it had all been
going so well, he had used the weapons to pin down the human and its
Corti companion, and had distracted them for long enough to ensure his
backup completed, but the human had been... so incredibly infuriating,
so unutterably obnoxious that Thirteen had made the mistake of
forgetting about the Corti.

That mistake had cost him dearly.

Now he took stock of the situation, and he didn\'t see this ending
without an extremely unpleasant demise. It was true that exploding the
ship had been a drastic move, and it had been one attempted in the heat
of the moment, but the original intent had always been to limit the
destruction to the single missile beside the human. The rest had simply
been an enormous bluff that, now that he actually thought about it, may
have been obviously excessive.

That was another mistake that had cost him dearly. Why hadn\'t he just
killed the human as soon as he\'d been touching that missile? The other
warheads weren\'t the sort to explode simply because they were in an
explosion, and it would have saved him from *this* little quandary.

He took a deep breath to steady himself, and reminded himself that not
all was lost. There was still the Vulza, and the apparently useless
sentry bots... and of course the emergency option.

Was this a big enough emergency to employ *that*? He wasn\'t sure; the
human was still mostly unarmed, and the Vulza still had a chance. He
just had to make sure that the fight wasn\'t in a place where the human
could use a missile. It was a basic plan, an easy plan, it was the sort
of plan that actually seemed like it might have a chance.

And then he wouldn\'t have to use the emergency option.

‚ÅÇ

Adrian was towing another missile along, the same one that had made that
worrisome clunking noise earlier, and was moving so quickly that Askit
had been forced to ride the thing. Somehow riding it through corridors
seemed that much more terrifying than riding it through open space had
been.

He\'d named it Betty; apparently it was another \'Flintstones\'
reference, whatever that was, and had informed Askit that he was hoping
to make good on his promises to the mysterious Thirteen.

Askit wasn\'t really sure how an object this large could be inserted
into an anal cavity, but a small part of him was morbidly curious.

He was also beginning to worry about the human\'s state of mind; Adrian
normally calmed down after destroying whatever had pissed him off, but
right now his anger only seemed to be growing, and Askit worried that
the human might actually have finally broken.

He had just been attacked by three sentry bots at once, and had
proceeded to use one as a bludgeoning instrument against the others,
laughing madly as he brought them together in a shattering of metal and
polymer.

"Adrian," he ventured carefully, "are you alright? You seem...
terrifying."

"Sorry, mate," came the terse reply. "Need to keep pumped. That fucking
cyber--dildo is around here somewhere, and I need to be ready to take it
out."

"You mean the cyber--Vulza?" Askit asked. "You\'re probably right.
Thirteen must know we\'re coming for him."

"We also need to get to that fucker," Adrian agreed, bringing a foot
down on a sentry bot that dared to continue moving. It stopped after
that.

"If I were him, I\'d be trying to escape," Askit pondered. "Surely he\'d
be getting to a lifepod?"

"You heard him," Adrian said, continuing on his way. Askit wasn\'t sure
how the human knew which way he was going, or if he was equally as lost
as Askit himself, but he didn\'t seem to hesitate or show any sign of
being turned around. "He already *escaped*. Sent a copy of his fucking
brain back to HQ, so as far as we know he\'s got no stake in keeping
this ship in one piece. For all we know, he\'s started the
self--destruct to blow us all to fucking hell."

Askit blinked. "A self--destruct to what?"

"You guys don\'t have those either?" Adrian asked. "Good to know."

"We *have* self--destruct systems," Askit said, "but they only
false--fire the FTL to disintegrate the structure; that\'s why marines
wear the vacuum suits. Are you suggesting that humans have a mechanism
to *explode* their ships?"

"Some ships do," Adrian replied. "I don\'t know what the story is with
our spaceships, but I\'m guessing a small nuclear warhead might do the
trick if we get our hands on some big ones."

"Nuclear... warhead?" Askit asked. "But fission technology is unstable
and highly radioactive, too dangerous to use, despite the power it
yields!"

"Yeah," Adrian said, turning to look at him with a grin. "They make a
pretty big boom."

Humans continued to prove themselves psychotic, Askit thought. Had they
actually used these weapons on each other, he wondered, although it
seemed like a silly question when he thought about it. Of course they
had, they were psychotic.

"Do your people have a lot of these... nuclear weapons?" Askit asked
conversationally.

"Thousands, maybe?" Adrian answered. "Not really sure, mate. They come
in a lot of different shapes and sizes."

"Why do you have *so many*?" Askit asked in growing horror, visualising
the possibility of these... missiles armed with nuclear warheads. What
could possibly stop that sort of weaponry?

"That\'s a long story," Adrian replied. "Let\'s just say that there were
some different people who wanted to make sure they were really fucking
thorough if World War Three kicked off."

Completely psychotic.

‚ÅÇ

Vulza--Thirteen was in place, it looked as though the sentry bots had
given him the time he\'d needed to get where he needed to be, but that
had been tricky. The human seemed to be randomising its path through the
ship in a completely unreadable way, further proving its surprising
cunning.

That had only served to delay it, however, and now there was no way for
the savage creature to get to him without finding the Vulza in its way.
This time there wouldn\'t be any mistakes, there was no way that
Thirteen wasn\'t going to let the creature try and act on its own when
its predecessor had done such a poor job of it. It was said that Vulza
were intelligent for beasts, but there hadn\'t been much intelligence in
getting hit by a missile.

He was tracking the human\'s progress, poised for that perfect moment in
which to strike from a side passage. A flanking attack that would be
perfectly executed with a barrage of anti--tank blasts followed by a
savage rending of flesh. It would be a horrible way to die, and it would
still be too good for it.

The sound of the human came into earshot, its chatter incoherent with
the Vulza\'s lack of a translator implant.

Vulza--Thirteen\'s reptilian lips drew back in predatory anticipation.
It didn\'t expect a thing!

But then it suddenly came to a stop.

‚ÅÇ

Adrian had stopped moving the moment he had seen the Vulza--shaped
shadow stretching out onto the main corridor. It wasn\'t a deep shadow,
the lighting around the corridors was pretty decent, but it had been
dark enough for his subconscious to mark it, and from there his danger
senses had started tingling.

He\'d stopped just before the side corridor, and when he listened he
could hear a heavy breathing.

"What\'s wrong?" Askit asked softly.

"Cyber--Vulza," Adrian whispered back. "Stay clear..."

"Don\'t you need the missile?" Askit asked, readying to clamber off.

"You stay with Betty," he replied, taking off his left glove. "I\'m
going to try something different."

Askit paused before he started taking Betty backwards. "Don\'t die."

Adrian nodded absently. He was getting pretty fucking tired of these
motherfucking space--dragons on this motherfucking spaceship, but with a
little help maybe he could turn it to his advantage.

Margarita was dead, but she still had one last card to play.

‚ÅÇ

Vulza--Thirteen was considering what to do if the human didn\'t come
around the corner. He was straining his senses to hear what was going
on, and that wasn\'t giving him anywhere near the amount of information
he would have gotten from the Elinee\'s internal sensors, but he
couldn\'t get *that* without disconnecting from the Vulza.

The main question was whether or not the human knew he was *there*. He
didn\'t know how it would be possible, Vulza--Thirteen had taken great
pains to remain as motionless as he was able in the moments before the
human had arrived, and there was no way for the human to catch the
Vulza\'s scent through the Vacuum suit.

It was possible the human was just taking a short rest after breaking so
many things, so Vulza--Thirteen continued to wait for the perfect moment
to strike.

That was when a human arm appeared around the corner -- minus the glove
from the Vacuum suit -- its fist pointed in Vulza--Thirteen\'s general
direction.

The brief moment during which Vulza--Thirteen considered whether to try
shooting such a small target passed quickly, and was ended by the agony
of lasers being shot into both of its eyes.

Thirteen was very glad that the link did not transmit the pain itself,
only the indication that the Vulza was experiencing it. It was, however,
experiencing a lot of it.

The Vulza\'s body recoiled instinctively, reacting to the pain and to
the sudden blindness that had darkened its world. Thirteen drove the
control unit with all he could to try and get its thrashing under
control, but he didn\'t get long.

Something hard and metallic hit the Vulza in the side of the head,
knocking all of the sense out of it and disrupting Thirteen\'s control.

Then it hit it again, and the Vulza was out. Even with a control unit,
there\'d be little Thirteen could do to get it back into the fight now
that its senses were so addled, and so he sat in the darkness of its
mind for a while.

There was nothing more for it, he realised. He had to deploy the
emergency option after all.

‚ÅÇ

"Take a picture," Adrian said, one foot atop the fallen Vulza and the
metal pipe over his shoulder. He had taken his helmet off for the
request, and was grinning like some kind of idiot.

Askit obliged without argument; it wasn\'t every day someone subdued a
Vulza after all, especially not with something as basic as a metal pipe
to the head, even if he had managed to blind it first with the
\'Bond--watch\'.

"Good picture," Askit replied. "Maybe you can hang it on your wall,
assuming you ever get a wall."

Adrian grinned. "Good man, now help me figure out what we can do with
this thing."

"Kill it?" Askit suggested. "I\'m not sure what else you could be
suggesting."

"This thing was here, laying in wait for us," Adrian explained. "It was
definitely under some kind of control. Can you imagine getting one of
these snarling fuckers to do anything you told it to otherwise?"

Askit couldn\'t, and he inspected the fallen beast more closely. There
was a lot of grafts there, weapons mostly but also some sort of harness
that only *looked* like armour. There had also been something done to
its skull.

He checked his datapad for network devices, and found one.

"It\'s got a computer inside of it," he said. "It\'s broadcasting as
\'Vulza Two\'. I can... probably take control of it... and I *have*
taken control of it."

"It doesn\'t even have a name?" Adrian asked. "Let\'s go with...
Barney."

"Renaming the Vulza as \'Barney\'," Askit replied. He wasn\'t even going
to try passing comment on this one, and in any case the man who beat the
Vulza should be able to call it whatever he liked. "What would you like
Barney to do?"

Adrian sat down atop the Vulza. "I think I\'d like him to take us to his
leader."
:::
