# S - Salvage
***Salvage***

---

_Editor's Note: This, and all subsequent chapters marked as "S", are part of the Deathworlders extended universe and make up the collection known as Salvage. It was written by **/u/Rantarian**. This collection is part of the (somewhat subjective) "Essential" reading order and provides backstory for several characters and events that are later included in Hambone's main story._

---

Bekmer stood waiting in the cavernous flight deck of the Zhadersil, an
ancient and automatically maintained carrier ship that had managed to
survive the destruction of the V\'strak war machine that had spawned it
a fifth of a galactic cycle ago \[\~50 million years\] in the last Age.
That it still existed in one piece was astounding, that it had still
been somewhat functional when Bekmer and his team moved in had been
nothing short of a miracle. Nobody would have normally thought to
investigate a chunk of space rock orbiting an unremarkable Class 10
Deathworld -- the latter was more worthy of attention by any measure --
and yet a routine scan had uncovered something astounding. The outer
hull had been pock marked and covered with enough space dust to credibly
disguise the ship as a natural piece of space debris, it had been a
simple case of being in the right place at the right time.

Bekmer, and the few members of his salvage crew, had stumbled upon the
find of a lifetime -- the Corti Directorate would be particularly
pleased, once they found out about it -- and it was certain to make the
entire crew wealthy, and Bekmer himself fabulously so. The ship was in
no condition for movement, however, and as a result Bekmer had kept the
discovery quiet for the past few cycles while the many necessary repairs
were made to restore the ship to even a mere vestige of a threatening
military vessel. This deathworld was uninterestingly known only by its
coordinate set, cursorily scanned by exploration drones and was well
beyond the borders of any recognized government, and Bekmer was damned
if he was going to try and fly a barely space--worthy fortune through
uncontrolled space.

"Remind me why we are doing this again?" Bekmer asked, his gaze set
disapprovingly on the Micro--Freighter that had just put down. Even the
smallest freighter ships were large vessels, dwarfing the smaller
salvage vessel that had borne the salvage crew to the Zhadersil, but
against the vastness of the ancient ship\'s flight deck it seemed
ridiculously toy--like. "Restorations are proceeding as scheduled, and
the weapons will soon be active. This is a distraction we cannot
afford."

Treoffa, his immediate subordinate and sometimes mate exhaled sharply
through her nostrils in a show of indignant frustration. "They\'re not
active yet, and our sensor buoys have detected faint Hunter activity in
systems nearby. Not to mention the possibility of any pirate vessels who
might have chosen to make their base out here."

"Still..." Bekmer said, although more hesitantly after the mention of
the vicious creatures who ate the flesh of fellow sentient beings,
"we\'re practically invisible here. We barely found the ship by
accident, we weren\'t even looking for V\'strak relics since you\'ll
recall that none were supposed to exist. Besides, we\'ve even got the
cloaking field up, now."

"We are acutely vulnerable!" hissed Treoffa. "We both know the extent of
the Hunters\' expertise with cloaking technology! Do you wish to
underestimate their expertise at detecting the cloaking fields of
others? This is a microscopic expense compared to what we stand to lose
if this vessel is taken from us!"

Bekmer opened his mouth to make some retort, but was interrupted by the
hiss of machinery as the Micro--Freighter opened its containment bay for
inspection, lowering the cargo lift on powerful pneumatics to reveal
four white and gleaming cylindrical pods that hinted at containing
something more interesting than everyday weapons. These were stasis
pods, and from the way the indicators blinked on them they were all
occupied with the internal temporal suppression fields fully active. The
devices used a variant of the FTL drive to store whatever was inside of
them in total suspended animation for as long as they had power.

Azhiz, the Robalin the two Corti entrepreneurs had entrusted with the
task of returning with such cargo, crawled forth from his pilots hatch
with an eager grin on his face, as if barely able to contain his
excitement. He was an uncivilized sort, even for a Robalin, wearing
clothing with highly contrasting colours and with many of his soft green
scales stained into a vibrant yellow. No doubt some preposterous attempt
to declare his individuality to the galaxy. He was, however,
refreshingly mercenary and had thus far served the salvage crew well,
although Treoffa and Bekmer had both ensured that the Robalin had had
nothing to do with his species\' ambition to uncover the ultimate
bio--warfare weapon.

His lack of involvement did not mean that they had to like him.

"Azhiz," Bekmer greeted the Robalin coldly, "you have been asked to
bring us soldiers. I trust you have not wasted your time or our funds?"

Azhiz was used to such a reception, and if he was still bothered by it
he didn\'t show it. "Master Bekmer," he softly hissed as he bowed
subserviently, "I have done entirely as you wished. All are
combat--capable individuals and each has been... enthusiastically
encouraged to follow any orders given to them."

"Cerebral Detonators?" Bekmer asked. It was what he had asked for, but
it never hurt to confirm -- especially when dealing with a Robalin.
Cerebral detonators were cheap, inobvious, and exceptionally effective
at ensuring that the implantee followed orders. They would eventually
degrade, but only long after the ship had been salvaged and as such long
after the implantees services were required.

"Indeed," Azhiz asked, maintaining his subservient posture. "However I
regret to inform you that one of the subjects was... damaged."

"Damaged?" Treoffa interjected sharply. "The pods appear to be
functional and undamaged. What have you done, Azhiz?"

Azhiz grew outwardly uncomfortable, his posture more submissive. "The
fourth subject awoke during surgery," he said, with slow deliberation.
"The fault was with the surgeon."

"Brain damage?!" Treoffa asked. "We can\'t have a brain--damaged soldier
running around! That\'d be more dangerous than the Hunters!"

"N--no," Azhiz replied, "he had not yet been operated on. He was damaged
as necessary to capture him, and it proved necessary to employ a
Strike--Drone\'s main cannon."

The two Corti paused, exchanging worried glances. Strike--Drones were a
new war technology the Corti Directorate had intended to sell to both
sides of the Celzi--Dominion conflict, ensuring impartiality in their
enterprises while reaping a considerable profit. They were a hover
platform carrying a heavy kinetic cannon, and had been intended for use
on tanks, Vulza, and unfortunate infantrymen. Bekmer wasn\'t sure why a
science vessel would have one, since there were so few reasons why
they\'d ever need one, and they almost never met with unfortunate... his
thoughts trailed off as the pieces began falling into place.

"You said \'damaged\'," Treoffa mused, "but I take it you are not
suggesting that one of those pods is filled with mopped up remains."

"It can\'t be..." Bekmer breathed, horror finding its way to his face
and contorting it. "They\'re under containment! There\'s no way in!"

"What?!" Treoffa asked, the truth of it dawning on her at the same time.
They\'d been all over the news, in every important conversation, and
they were exactly the sort of thing an idiot Robalin like Azhiz would
have thought perfect for a soldier.

"It\'s a human," Bekmer spat, "isn\'t it, Azhiz?! You\'ve brought a
human aboard our ship!" Azhiz recoiled at he vehemence of Bekmer\'s
reaction. "I-- I had just thought... the one on the news was fighting
Vulza!"

"Where did you even get it?!" Bekmer demanded as Treoffa stood by in
clear shock. "Their homeworld is under containment!"

"A Corti science vessel had one they\'d not yet returned," Azhiz
explained quickly. "They were going to destroy it, or try to destroy it
anyway. I convinced them of a more lucrative alternative."

"And then?" Treoffa asked, finding her voice. "Was it they who did the
surgery?"

"They tried to," Azhiz continued, "but the dose they used to put the
human to sleep was based on records from another human recorded on a
hospital ship. This one was more resistant."

"Did it kill everyone on the ship?" Bekmer asked coldly. He\'d lost old
companions to accidents in human containment breaches.

"It would have if they had not had a strike--drone aboard," Azhiz
replied. "It still got twelve out of thirty before it was hit, and would
have been more if it wasn\'t for the fact that they were ready for
something like that. Once it was down, they prepped him like they
originally intended and set him up with a cerebral detonator, basic
translator, and a big dose of the new frontline protection serum."

"Thank goodness for that," Treoffa said. "We haven\'t got any of that on
hand."

"They left it injured, however?" Bekmer asked.

Azhiz nodded quickly. "I think they were angry at him. Understandable."

"Unprofessional," Bekmer replied. "We will review the damage to it, and
see if it can be put to use before we need to destroy it."

Treoffa nodded in agreement. It seemed that neither Corti wished to have
a human running around on the ship.

"Now," Bekmer continued, "What else did you bring?"

---

"It\'s conscious," a voice said, and bright white light seared the eyes
of Adrian Saunders, blinding him even as he opened them.

He felt as though he was drifting, a strange sensation compounded by the
fact that there were two clearly alien beings standing by consoles
around him, although at this point the strangeness of little gray men
being real had somewhat lost its edge.

Not Heaven then, he thought dreamily. Not that he had ever believed in
that, or had ever expected to end up there even if he had. This state
was not entirely unfamiliar to him -- he recognized the effects of too
many pain--killers when he felt them, although he\'d hoped never to be
shot again after leaving the military six months ago. Much like the rest
of Adrian\'s hopes, however, that one had also turned to shit.

"Does it understand me?" one of them asked, turning to the other. It\'s
voice was clearly male, but there was a strange dissonance in Adrian\'s
head where alien sounds were twisted into his native English. It also
sounded like a total arsehole.

"It should," said the other, this one with a female, but not feminine,
voice. She looked at Adrian with all the empathy of a five year old boy
pulling the wings off of flies. "At least the translator isn\'t showing
any errors."

The male turned to him again. "Can you understand me?"

"Get fucked..." Adrian replied. "Don\'t need none\'ve that..."

"It seems he hears you," the female noted wryly.

"What you need," the male continued, more intently now, his tone ice
cold, "is for your ribs to be re--assembled and for emergency action to
be taken to stop your organs from dying. Do you understand?"

"You fuckers shot me," Adrian said, or mumbled. "Flying thing with a big
gun on it..."

The male leaned in, scowling -- or at least what Adrian thought was a
scowl. "Two things: That wasn\'t us, and those \'big guns\' are meant to
assault armoured vehicles. You are lucky someone cared enough to keep
you alive so that I could put you back together. We are *salvage*
hunters, and today *you* are our salvage."

"We brought you out of your stasis to run our demands past you," the
female interjected.

Adrian processed this for a moment, trying to figure it out through the
fog that covered his thinking. "Demands?"

"If we save you, we will feed you, we will arm you, and we will help you
get home," the male said. "In return you work for us. You protect us."

"Protect you?" Adrian asked, confused. "What about the flying thing?
The... drone thing..."

The two aliens shared a brief glance before turning back to him. "We
prefer you for the job. But if you don\'t want it, then our medical
resources are better spent elsewhere. Do we have a deal?"

Adrian was silent for a while, long enough that the two aliens shared
what might have been a worried glance.

"Yeah," he said, albeit unhappily. "I guess we have a deal."

---

The human was returned to a medical coma with the addition of more
drugs. Treoffa decried the sheer amount of medication required to
achieve this as a waste of resources better used elsewhere, but Bekmer
had ordered her to continue -- Treoffa was only second--in--command.

"Ensure his survival," Bekmer had told her as he\'d left the human in
her care. "Ensure he is returned to a combat ready state as soon as
possible. Do whatever you have to do, and remember... the soldiers were
your idea."

Bekmer had other things to attend to, such as three somewhat disgruntled
soldiers currently awaiting an explanation for their abduction and
temporary enslavement.

They awaited him in the Zhadersil\'s brig -- the small hold of his
salvage craft was not enough to cope with all three -- and none of them
looked happy.

They rose as he entered the room, separated not only by thick metal bars
but a kinetic shield similar to what had encapsulated the human\'s home
star system. The latter was pointless, the bars were heavy enough to
contain an enraged Vulza -- a curious thing to consider, Bekmer thought
-- but this was as much about making a statement as it was about
containment.

"I am Bekmer," he told them, behaving as much like a commander as he was
capable of achieving. "All you need to know is that you have been
brought here to protect the salvage opportunity of a thousand lifetimes,
and of course the crew carrying it out. Of that crew you have now met
the Robalin and myself. There is another Corti, as well as two
Rrrrtktktkp\'ch, currently involved in this operation."

He stepped closer to them, ignoring their glares of animosity. "Your
compliance has been ensured by the addition of cerebral detonators."

They were so shocked that he almost revealed amusement, but that would
have been unprofessional. It was more common for slave--soldiers to be
unaware of the modification, to be tempted with a prize until they
threatened disobedience, but with these three that chance had come and
gone well before they\'d woken up from suspended animation.

"You," he said, pointing at the Chehnasho, a gaunt amphibious creature
with bulging eyes and slick brown--green skin. Chehnasho were frequently
employed as mercenaries in conflicts for their cunning and rapid
movement in combat. They were an androgynous species, with each
individual able to adapt its gender as desired, and this had ensured
their spread throughout a multitude of worlds. "Your name?"

"Zripob," Zripob replied with a harsh, croaking voice. "We are slaves,
then?"

"For the time being," Bekmer told him. "Work well and you will be
released when our work here is done."

Bekmer didn\'t wait for the Chehnasho\'s answer, instead turning to the
bone, fur and leather arrangement that was a Rauwryhr. They were often
employed as scouts for military forces, where they decided to involve
themselves, and were able to see well at night as well as take flight to
provide an aerial advantage. "And your name?"

The creature gazed at him hatefully before answering. "Trycrur," she
replied, her voice so surprisingly feminine that Bekmer nearly revealed
his shock. It didn\'t matter, of course, which gender the creature was
so long as it could fight, but Rauwryhr bred with difficulty and rarely
allowed their females to risk themselves in combat roles.

Bekmer nodded, pretending that this was what he had been expecting all
along and moved to the next caged alien -- this one a powerfully built
Gaoian male who\'d thus far been standing in silence and giving him a
black look from beneath fur very nearly as black. "And you, Gaoian?"

"I am Chir," the Gaoian said forcefully. "You\'ll pay for what you\'re
doing to us!"

"I doubt it very much, Chir," Bekmer replied, tapping the side of his
head. "Cerebral detonator, remember?" Chir grunted and threw himself at
the bars, grunting with surprise as he was thrown back by the kinetic
shield.

"You will be released shortly," Bekmer told them. "Ponder your
circumstances until then. Consider how good work and obedience may be
rewarded, and how defiance--" he turned his eyes to look at Chir, "meets
with destruction. No more warnings."

Bekmer turned on his heel and strode from the brig, leaving sight of the
soldiers before exhaling a trembling breath. It was obvious that they
hated him, that they may well risk detonation to get at him, and that if
that did occur that Bekmer would be in a very poor position to respond
in any way that not result in brains splattered everywhere. The human,
as far as he could tell, was the only one who didn\'t have any reason to
completely despise him, and was the only one to who Bekmer could offer
something beyond the simple prospect of freedom following the work --
even if that prospect was a false one. He had to hope that that would be
enough.

His communicator beeped, and by reflex he allowed the link to connect
before quickly checking the name on it to sound like he had everything
under control. "Treoffa? What do you want? Don\'t tell me the human
has--"

"Died?" Treoffa asked, finishing Bekmer\'s question for him. "No.
Although that would have been better, perhaps."

Death would have been better? Bekmer could not hide his surprise this
time. "What are you talking about?" he asked irately.

"Come and see," she replied. "Now."

The link disconnected before Bekmer could respond, and he hissed in
irate fury while he remained unseen in the empty corridor before
hurrying to do as instructed.

Treoffa was not given to fancy, and aside from her enjoyment in taunting
Bekmer she was entirely professional -- that, after all, was what he
found so welcome in her as an occasional mate.

---

"This had better be important," Bekmer snapped as he entered the room
where Treoffa was busily running scans on the comatose human.

"It is," she assured him.

Undisguised concern was now so evident in her voice that it gave Bekmer
pause. "Tell me."

"The damage was severe on a cellular level," she began to explain.
"Organ tissue was dying, as was muscle, and that is not even taking into
account all of the bone fragments."

"Azhiz told us that much," Bekmer replied impatiently. "A cellular
regenerative should have alleviated the former problem."

She nodded. "That was my first step, but there is no information on how
to reassemble a human this badly damaged, and so I initiated localised
trials for the various possible drugs."

"At least one should have worked," Bekmer said. "We\'re not entirely
unfamiliar with human physiology."

"They all worked," Treoffa replied. "The problem is that the Cruezzir
formula had an unexpected result when introduced into the human\'s gut
bacteria."

"Ah yes," mused Bekmer, "the unfathomable infestation of competing
microbes living inside an even more unfathomable host. What was
unexpected?"

"There was a rapid mutation," continued Treoffa. "One I did not notice
until it was too late. The bacteria in question have started producing
the same regenerative proteins that the Cruezzir was intended to elicit
only whilst it was in the subject\'s system. He is now effectively
self--producing the protein."

Bekmer was silent, looking down at the still body of the human. To his
unaided eyes nothing seemed to be changing -- it wasn\'t as if every
injury the human had obviously endured was sealing up in front of him.
"What is the outcome?" he asked.

"The protein has started to flood his body," Treoffa said, "and all
damaged cells are regenerating. There are signs of new growth on the
bones already." Bekmer produced a strangled noise, and it was a moment
before he could talk again. "Are you telling me you\'ve just taken the
most dangerous species in the recorded history of this galaxy and made
it stronger?"

She nodded slowly. "What do you want me to do?"

The answer to that took a long time for Bekmer to consider. He stared at
the motionless human without thought, numb shock filling the space where
logic and cunning usually resided, and a cold knot of fear resting in
his gut.

"Follow my original orders," he said at last. "May the Directorate be
merciful on me if I am wrong."

---

Time had passed. Chir wasn\'t sure how much, since the ship did not
simulate day/night cycles and the Corti slave--masters had not seen fit
to provide their slave--soldiers with any means of telling the time. The
\'soldiers\' had worked out a haphazard roster on their own, based on
their varied needs for sleep, and had done their best to work as
required. Even Chir had been quiet and obedient, although he considered
the chances of ever seeing his beloved homeworld again to be slim.

He was at least not the only soldier in the group; Zripob had served in
two major engagements on behalf of the Celzi before the Dominion had
paid his company more to serve them for a third. Mercenaries were a
rarely advertised part of modern war, and usually took on roles for
ship--to--ship action rather than getting blasted into shreds of meat in
the planet--bound infantry, and Zripob\'s experience in this would prove
invaluable.

Trycrur, on the other hand, was no soldier at all, but was apparently
considered a highly competent weapons designer and had worked in a
Dominion military department before she had been snatched. She had been
dressed in military colours at the time, however, and it was
unsurprising that anyone simply searching for a lone individual in
soldier dress would have identified her as anything other than a
soldier. She knew, at least, which way to point a gun, but from what
Chir could tell this was about the entirety of her soldier skills. If
they were attacked by anything other than an immobile target, he doubted
she would be of any help.

The three of them rarely moved from their patrol lines around the
salvage crew\'s own ship, although Chir had every indication that there
was a lot of ship he did not see. The flight--deck alone was big enough
to fit two full Gaoian cruisers, and he wondered at the use its previous
owners had put it to. From what he had overheard they had been named the
V\'strak, and although he was entirely unfamiliar with anything by that
name it was clear that the ship was truly ancient and that they valued a
great ruggedness in all of their structures. Judging by the lack of
cushions, they also valued discomfort -- truly alien beings.

"What do you think they\'re talking about?" Zripob asked him as they met
to change over patrol shifts. "The Corti, I mean?"

Chir displayed surprise, and turned his attention to the Corti who had
emerged from some other part of the great ship and were proceeding
towards their salvage vessel. They were speaking quietly, but the
conversation was clearly quite heated. They\'d been getting more like
that lately, and Chir did not like it -- angry slave--masters did not
make for happy and free slaves.

"I\'ve heard the word \'Human\' being said a few times when they thought
I couldn\'t hear," Zripob confided with him quietly. "The way I hear it,
Corti haven\'t exactly got the best relationship with those monsters. Do
you think they\'ve pissed one off?"

"They\'re not so bad," Chir replied. "There is one on my homeworld who
has been adopted by the females as one of their own. An excellent
protector, and one not aligned with any of the male clans. She is even
well respected by our leaders."

"That doesn\'t help us if these fools have managed to get ones
attention," Zripob said. "Who do you think gets sent to fight it first
if it turns up looking to turn Corti into gwalish \[cold meat stew\]?"

Chir clicked his acceptance of the fact. "Hopefully it won\'t come to
that."

---

"Hopefully it won\'t come to that," Treoffa said. "I don\'t think we
have enough medicine left to kill him."

"We could eject him into space," Bekmer suggested, "or we could just
start stabbing and see where that takes us!"

"He\'s not unconscious anymore," Treoffa chided. "I think he may object
if you try any of that, and then he\'ll tear your limbs off and beat us
all to death with them."

"But he\'s mutating!" Bekmer replied angrily, glancing about to make
sure the slave--soldiers couldn\'t hear him. He could see two of them,
the Gaoian and the Chehnasho staring in their direction. "Let\'s get
into the ship and talk in private!"

He opened the hatch and allowed Treoffa to enter first, then he closed
it behind him before continuing. "He\'s mutating!"

"He\'s not!" Treoffa replied sharply. "The gut bacteria have continued
to flood him with the formula, and it is affecting his body in
unforeseen ways."

"You said his organs have grown!" Bekmer said, almost accusing in his
tone. "That doesn\'t normally happen with Cruezzir! I should know, I\'ve
used it myself!"

"Scans do indicate growth in the lungs, most likely compensating for the
thin air," Treoffa said. "Although that has ceased since his ribs have
regrown. Other organs which appear to be responsible for toxin
filtration have also grown somewhat, most likely in response to the
drugs we\'ve been feeding him. It now takes thirty percent higher doses
to achieve the same effect."

"He\'s bigger!" Bekmer said, flustered for claims to throw at his
second--in--command.

"Yes," Treoffa said, "his muscles grew slightly when I exposed them to
mild electrical stimulus. I increased the stimulus, with proportional
effects, although it seems to have plateaued for now. It took seventy
percent of our remaining food supplies to achieve this, and we\'ll have
to get Azhiz to go and get us more before long."

"Seventy percent..." Bekmer repeated, dumbfounded by the number. That
was an incredible amount of food, enough to have lasted them until the
end of their work here. "And yet you say he hasn\'t mutated!"

"He has grown," Treoffa said, "but he is now simply a prime version of a
human, and probably biologically immortal if my cell scans are
accurate."

"This is too much for my judgement, Treoffa," Bekmer said weakly as he
flopped down into his command chair. "He\'s too dangerous to let
survive, and we certainly can\'t send him back to Earth even if the
shield fails. Can you imagine a planet full of biologically--immortal
super--beings? We couldn\'t find a decent attack vector with regular
humans, how are we supposed to deal with this?"

"Well whatever you do, don\'t go threatening him with his cerebral
detonator," Treoffa warned him.

Bekmer got to his feet at the mention of the device, suddenly rather
more pleased with himself. "I nearly forgot about that! Those idiotic
researchers put on in his head as well, didn\'t they? We can just
activate that, and--"

"It\'s been effectively destroyed," Treoffa interrupted. "His immune
system recognised it as a foreign object and has ruined it. I can\'t say
that it\'d explode even if you reached into his skull and pressed the
button yourself."

"Then there is no helping it, Treoffa," Bekmer said with enormous
disappointment. "We have to inform the Directorate."


