---
title: Solve for X-plosion
---

# Solve for X-plosion

\

\

::: chapter
**The Dastasji, uncertain coordinates in hostile space**

**Scava**

Rarely in life is the sudden appearance of a tightly packed cluster of
cosmic debris a welcome sight. Certainly, it was difficult to imagine
any other scenario where nearly certain death brought with it a sigh of
relief, but today was proving to be full of challenges and this was one
they could deal with. Untrustworthy though it might be, the automated
system controlling emergency evasion activated immediately, swinging the
Dastasji around with enough force to send every crewman clutching for
the nearest wall--grip. Yellow emergency lights flashed their warning
just as quickly, although nobody had been under any illusions about how
dire their situation had already been.

"First Officer," the Shiplord called out, drawing Scava's full attention
to him. Jrasic was as stalwart and imperturbable as ever, so much that
even the current disaster had failed to shake his resolve. Scava had
served with three other Shiplords prior to his assignment on the
Dastasji, but none of them could inspire the crew as Jrasic was somehow
able. His absolute certainty was infectious. "Can I assume that we have
exited the anomaly?"

Scava bobbed his head respectfully. "You can, Shiplord! There is no sign
of the research facility."

"Expected," was Jrasic's blunt reply. "Their predictions were
optimistic, however I believe we have survived to discover something the
scientific community could not."

Scava kept one eye on his scanners while the other feigned attention to
Jrasic. The field was densely packed with diverse forms of debris,
ranging from simple broken--down asteroids, to chunks of planet or
planetoid; there was also more than a passing number of artificial
structures littering observable space. Two of those were moving under
force, with neither presenting any recognised identity code.

"Two unknown ships," came the report from across the command deck, and
it was Officer Lazh who now held Jrasic's gaze. "One... very large, with
significant damage. I am detecting structural similarities to a
long--range carrier design."

"The other?" Jrasic asked.

"Unremarkable," Lazh replied. "A vessel of that size presents no threat,
even if it *is* armed."

Jrasic bobbed his head thoughtfully, and moved on to the more important
matter. "I want to know what this situation is. What is the larger
vessel, some form of station, or is it truly a wreckage?"

"I can try to answer the former query, Shiplord," said Artiz from the
master sensor station. It was not typical of most Varga--class
Destroyers to carry such an elaborate suite of scanner technology, nor
for it to be manned by an actual blue--chip, instead of a specially
trained red--chip like the rest of the crew, but the Dastasji had always
been designed for the most dangerous intelligence gathering exercises,
and it was this capacity that had seen them selected for remote
observation of the experiment that had sent them to this place. That the
scanners, and Artiz, were also the only reasons they'd even survived the
experiment was not lost of Scava, and it seemed the Shiplord gave it
equal consideration when he turned to the military scientist.

"You have an explanation?" Jrasic asked.

"An educated *hypothesis*, Shiplord," Artiz conceded. "We already know
the anomaly is a passage through space, and potentially even through
time---although travel to the past is still considered mere
speculation---but given that we just spent considerable time outside of
both, it would not be outside the realm of possibility that everything
else we see did the same. The composition is certainly varied enough to
suggest many different sources."

Jrasic turned an eye to Scava, who bobbed his head in agreement. "It is
very unlikely this debris accumulated naturally, Shiplord."

"If this is so," Jrasic mused, "I suspect we have located many failed
experiments, and those conducting them. Communications Officer, attempt
to raise a communication with the larger ship."

"Successful," replied the nominated crewman, with a surprisingly fast
turnaround time. "Communications are active when you deign to speak,
Shiplord."

Disregarding the way the Dastasji swayed to and fro, Jrasic rose to his
full height and puffed out his chest boldly. Even in his advancing
years, the old Shiplord cut an impressive figure that could give even a
superior officer second thoughts. "This is Shiplord Jrasic of the
Dastasji," he announced. "Identify yourself."

The respondent was certainly *not* of their kind. "This is the
artificial intelligence of this scouting vessel," came the hideous
reply. "It is greatly unexpected to see a fully functional V'Straki
warship in this era, but Adrian Saunders works in mysterious ways. What
is your---"

Jrasic terminated the link before more could be said. Disturbed though
Scava was, he found himself rattled by the ashen face the Shiplord now
presented, and actively needed to refrain from rising to assist the old
warrior. That would have been grossly disrespectful, and even this
development could not allow for that kind of lapse in judgement.

"Shiplord," Artiz said quietly, plainly as shocked as the rest of them,
"that... thing... has a functioning *Crucible*."

Now Jrasic spun in alarm. "You're certain?!"

Artiz bobbed his head firmly. He was certain.

‚ÅÇ

**The Amber Radiance, debris field in vicinity of Agwar**

**Adrian Saunders**

Two seconds. Adrian reckoned that was how long it would take for a human
engineer to reject any plans to build a ship like the Amber Radiance. It
wasn't that it was particularly awful by Dominion standards---there was
every sign that it had been constructed in accordance with such
specifications---but the reliance on technology over good design was
seen everywhere. This was, at least, a military vessel, and there were a
handful of redundancies that would never be found in a civilian ship,
but nothing that Adrian enjoyed staking his life on. Any engineer worth
is salt should be gripped by the paranoid, yet far from inaccurate
belief that everything would fail at the worst possible time. There was
also the fact that it had, quite obviously, been courageously
retrofitted for general purpose, having originally been built as a troop
transport for the Dominion--Celzi war before being sold as excess stock.

Learning all this didn't help alleviate his concerns; the ship groaned,
creaked, and popped in protest as Trix fought to keep it away from the
petatonnes of debris that were still bursting back into normal space.
Those grim sounds told Adrian everything he needed to know: shit was
fucked, and it was getting worse. It didn't help that there was a
pending request for a communications link he was studiously ignoring.

"Fuckin' Jesus!" he exclaimed after a particularly loud and alarming
groan. "I don't like the way your ship is sounding!"

"My ship wasn't built for this!" Laphor shot back angrily, gripping her
seat tightly for support. "Especially not just after ramming into
yours!"

True enough, he thought; he doubted any ship would be up to this kind of
challenge after slamming into Spot's reinforced hull, and it was now
only a matter of time before something really important gave out. With
the help of the sensors, Adrian could already tell where the structure
would first fracture, and begin the rapidly accelerating process of
tearing itself apart. Every sharp movement pushed them a little further
towards annihilation.

Unfortunately there wasn't much to be done about that. While the ship
may have been creaking, groaning, and shuddering, his attention was
fixed on the viewscreen where dark shapes sped, spun, and collided with
each other. To human eyes they'd have been featureless silhouettes
against the glow of the Ilrayen Band, but the sensors did an excellent
job of picking out the details, and Adrian didn't like what he saw; it
was a wonder that they weren't all dead already. Little wonder that
Laphor was agitated, or that the mercenaries were holding on with all
their might; the kinetics weren't faring well, and although it was no
worse than a fairly moderate rollercoaster they were finding the
constant changes in gravity to be sickening, none of which served to
fully distract them from a sense of impending doom.

Laphor continued a moment after another violent swerve to starboard.
"Even if we---augh---even if we somehow survive this mess, there's still
some psychotic monster of a ship out there that, for reasons I cannot
fathom, seems to think you're some kind of all--powerful being. Do you
have a plan for dealing with that?"

"I've always got a plan," Adrian lied. Given what had just happened, he
didn't think the A.I. would be in the mood for a friendly chat. "I
suppose I have to talk to it."

"I've just run the numbers on that idea," Trix interrupted. "Turns out
it's a bad idea. Why don't we just get out of here and never look back?"

It was a nice idea in theory, but Adrian shook his head. "We tried that
the *first* time we blew a fucking hole in space--time. Look where that
got us!"

It also meant that they'd be abandoning the planet---or what was left of
it---to a Cruezzir infestation, an asteroid swarm, and the radioactive
fallout of multiple anti--matter bombs. Things weren't looking good for
Agwar, but the Agwarens didn't deserve extinction and Adrian wasn't
about to let it happen after all the bullshit he'd already been through.
Maybe there'd be nothing he could do, but he had enough on his
conscience without adding extras.

"I can't say I agree," Laphor replied, "in my experience, retreat is
*always* an option. Besides which, if we trust to *your* luck then we'll
end up in even worse trouble... if that's somehow even possible! If we
can leave, then we *should* leave."

"We're staying," Adrian decided with greater confidence, and shot a hard
look at Laphor that ended the discussion. "And that means I have to talk
to that fucking thing again. Trix... accept the link."

To the right of the view screen a small orange light flashed briefly
before turning a solid green, indicating that the connection was now
active, and it brought with it a heavy sense of responsibility to
accompany the usual mortal danger.

"Link established, Divine Ruler," Trix reported in her most obsequious
manner. It wasn't strictly necessary, and nor had it been discussed, but
it was exactly the sort of thing that would really sell their story. No
doubt he'd cop some serious shit about all this later down the line.
"The connection is open for your magnificence."

Some really serious shit.

Swaying slightly to the left as the Amber Radiance made a sudden swerve
to starboard, Adrian did an excellent job of looking like the motion
wasn't bothering him in the slightest. Perching one leg on the seat so
that he could lean into the turn, he did his best to present a
completely unwarranted amount of confidence and self--importance. "So
you've survived my little test," he said, trying to sound as aloof as
all good deities were. "I am pleased, although this only means you've
met my expectations."

"Great God of Strife!" the A.I. began, no doubt taking its lead from
Trix's over--the--top introduction. "Would I be right in thinking that
all this chaos was intended to test my command of space--hole
technology, or was it---"

"Yes," Adrian lied, interrupting. "That was it."

"I understand, Divine One," it replied. "Unfortunately, I regret to
inform you that I cannot allow that technology to fall into the hands of
those who would threaten the Empire. I apologise, but this is amongst my
core protocols."

There were, to Adrian's mind, exactly three ways this conversation was
likely to progress. First, was that the ship would attempt to kill him
to hold onto its secrets, although he deemed this least probable due to
its current belief in his Divinity. Second, it would simply run away.
Third, and most simple, it would destroy itself. Every path led to the
destruction of Agwar and everything on it.

It was best not to go down any of those pathways; you don't fight a
battle knowing you're going to lose. "I don't want your space--holes; I
already have my own. I have something far more important in mind---a
true test of your abilities."

He let off with a dramatic pause, intending to use the brief moment of
silence to pull together a truly amazing delivery. His future, and the
future of the entire Agwaren people, hinged upon this single moment, and
it'd be almost impossible not to fuck it all up. It was a hell of a
burden for one man, and the link light switching to a suspended state
did nothing to help his confidence.

"Trix," he said tersely, his imperious fa√ßade giving way to confusion
and annoyance, "why the actual fuck are we on hold?"

"I thought it was a good time to interrupt with bad news," she replied
curtly. "Unless you wanted to remain ignorant, Divine One?"

Adrian glared at the nearest camera, although he felt more sick than
angry. Whatever required Trix to interrupt their current predicament
wasn't something he was looking forward to knowing about. Careening
around a tightly--packed debris field in a busted--as--fuck ship with a
crew full of brain--eating monsters was already enough crap to deal
with, even before adding in the overwhelming, impossible--to--destroy,
computer--monster he was tricking into good behaviour. He revised his
tone to one of greater civility, though it was hard to avoid feeling
annoyed at the messenger. "What is it now?"

"Disclaimer up front," she said, "this debris field is full of all kinds
of stuff, and these sensors aren't what we had on Spot, but there's
another ship out there, and it's laying down a more disruptive Gravity
Spike than I've ever previously detected."

"I'm guessing we're not lucky enough for that to be the good guys?" he
asked.

"You actually think you're the *good guys*?" Laphor asked incredulously,
though she went quiet at the very meaningful look that Adrian shot her
way.

"I don't know who they are," Trix admitted, "although they've definitely
got a far more powerful ship than we do. This is speculation, but... I
think they may have been stuck in the anomaly. Able to survive it, but
not able to escape it. We'd have been the same, if it hadn't been for
your most zealous believer."

"So we let it out," Adrian summarised.

"They ought to be grateful then," Laphor interjected.

Adrian snorted at the naivety of a self--proclaimed mercenary, turning
his eyes to the scanner reports Trix had pieced together. Whatever was
out there, it was less powerful that the Zhadersil had once been, but it
still had them trapped in constant mortal danger. Gravity Spikes meant
no warp drive, and no warp drive meant they weren't going anywhere.
"They might not be our enemies, but we shouldn't assume they're not.
Seems like everyone wants to kill us right now."

"Kill *you*," Laphor corrected. "You're the only one here in the habit
of antagonising entire galaxies."

"Should I try to contact them?" Trix asked.

Adrian gave the idea serious consideration. Under normal circumstances
there would be no need to think about it, but he had to think about what
the A.I. might do. Eventually he came to a resolution. "We can't do it.
They're a danger to us, yeah, but cluing old mate in on that fact isn't
going to look good when he reckons I'm a god."

"Gods don't get concerned?" Laphor asked. "Ignoring a threat because of
what a computer might think... this plan seems like suicide with extra
steps."

"Every day seems like that when you're around Adrian Saunders," Trix
quipped. "You get used to it."

Laphor narrowed her eyes into what Adrian guessed was a scowl. "I've
decided I do not like travelling with you!"

Adrian ignored her. "Trix, get that link back up."

The link--light returned to green in an instant, and as expected it was
the A.I. who spoke first. "Divine One... you mentioned a test? Does it
have something to do with the V'Straki warship?"

Adrian blinked; for a moment his mind went to the Zhadersil, but the
A.I. was not referring to the vessel it now mimicked. The other ship,
the one whose powerful Gravity Spike held them prisoner in normal space,
was no contemporary arrival, but was a relic of a forgotten age.

"Not exactly," he said in order to fill the silence. "I have a job for
you, a Divine Mandate, if you like: protect that world."

Now it was the A.I.'s turn for thoughtful silence. "Protect it? Weren't
you trying to *destroy* it? Why else would you bring such ruin to it?
Intergalactic war, radiation and fire, a biological infestation of some
form, and now this world--ending debris cluster."

"I like to keep things interesting," Adrian answered, biting back any
further retort. He knew that he was responsible, either directly or
otherwise, for the problems now facing the Agwaren homeworld, and it was
unlikely that the planet could ever fully recover. As the old saying
went: you can't unring a bell.

The challenge of cleaning up Adrian's mess was evidently not something
the A.I. had a great interest in, for another period of dreadful silence
passed before it spoke again. "Something is amiss," the A.I. finally
replied warily. "There has been a miscalculation..."

That was bad, and Adrian switched gears to salvage the situation.
"Everything is---" he began, trailing off as the link--light terminated
in a hard disconnect. "---fucked. Everything is fucked."

"That's not a good sign," one of the mercenaries remarked.

"Did it just hang up on me?" Adrian asked Trix after a moment. Their
sole saving grace was the fact that a V'Straki warship was currently
preventing the A.I. from launching an immediate attack with its field
manipulators, and that they were too obscured by the debris field for
conventional weapons, but that was the silver lining to a very dark
cloud.

"I think---" Trix started, but whatever she intended to say was
interrupted by the appearance of a newly formed sun. The sensors were
going absolutely haywire as incredible forces poured across the debris
field, and it took several moments before anyone did anything but stare.

"What just happened?" Laphor asked, her voice tinged by panic.

"Is that... a new star?!" one mercenary asked another.

The other mercenary shook his head in ignorance. "Star or not, it's a
bad sign. A very bad sign."

"It's not a star," Trix informed them. "It's... it's impossible!"

Adrian watched the scanners fail to make sense of their results. To the
eye it appeared as a rapidly expanding orb of light, filled with glowing
veins of energy that swept aside everything around them. It was a
terrifying kind of beauty, one that would have been very pretty from a
safe distance, but the scanners revealed the truth of the matter.

"Get us moving in the other fucking direction!" Adrian ordered, kicking
Trix into action. She didn't know what they were seeing, and while
Adrian only understood the raw basics, he knew enough to identify shit
hitting the fan. The core technology of the V'Straki Devastator Cannon
was a Creation Engine, a self--annihilating universe contained within a
carefully managed multi--layered warp field. It was incredibly
sophisticated technology that was far beyond anything the V'Straki had
built for themselves, and was hardwired to shut down in the event that
anything went wrong. Even the Zhadersil's radiation blast wasn't a true
override, but it was just one way in which the V'Straki engineers had
bodged it in pursuit of new and exciting ways to make explosions. This
seemed like the sort of thing they'd have really liked, and he didn't
need to guess who was responsible.

"Can't tell you how bad this is, Trix," he told her in a lowered voice.
"If you can go to warp, do it."

"We can't!" she hissed back. "That thing is growing faster and faster...
do you know what we're dealing with?"

"The power source on that ship was a self--annihilating universe in a
bubble," he outlined, steering clear of specifics. "Somehow, our
V'Straki friends have just popped it. That wall of force is eating
fucking everything in its way, and with all this space rock we've given
it a really big dinner."

Trix was quiet for a long moment, and the ship was felt to put on even
more speed. They were well--past safe limits now, which seemed about
right for their current problem. "That's... *incredibly* bad, Adrian!"

"What are our chances?" he asked. "Slim to none?"

"Closer to none," Trix replied. "Now that I know what we're dealing
with. The gravity spike has dropped, but there are gravity wells
shifting all over the place. If we had a clear path, or even some room,
maybe we'd have a shot."

They'd been speaking quietly, but by the sudden commotion behind them
there was no doubt that the mercenaries had overheard some of what had
been said. There was almost some relief to be found in the certainty of
death; at least the endless parade of bullshit would be over, but he was
too stubborn to feel anything but frustration. "This is a really shitty
way to go out, Trix."

"It's been... extremely exciting knowing you," she replied. "Never
thought I'd see the Human Disaster giving up, though."

"Optimism hasn't done me any favours recently," he replied. "How long do
we have before it hits us?"

"Roughly \[one hour\]," she replied. "That's enough time for anything to
happen."

He nodded, although it was hard to think of what they might do. If they
found a wide, open space for the warp field, maybe they could escape. If
the V'Straki ship was close by, they might try and get in contact, but
the waves of energy would permit no such communication. If they'd been
on Spot, he might have figured out... something. If wishes were fishes,
the world would be an ocean.

"You can't give up," Laphor told him, and Adrian turned to find her
staring at him intently, her eyes fixed on his with profound defiance.
"The idea... is just absurd. Adrian Saunders burns fleets. Adrian
Saunders is a nightmare who crushes other nightmares under boot. Adrian
Saunders tears the stars from the void and cuts through space and time
like a creature of myth. You, Adrian Saunders, are the most terrifying
thing I have ever seen! Compared to you, this is just a very big bang!"

It was the kind of speech that separated leaders from followers, and
wasn't something that Adrian had particularly expected to receive from
Laphor regardless of her rank. It had been strangely inspiring set of
backhanded compliments, but it was the final two words that had set his
mind racing. "An hour is a lot of time... Trix, I've got a plan."

"A plan?" Trix asked, sceptically.

"I've got the start of a plan," he revised. "Fuck, Laffy, I reckon I
could kiss you!"

Laphor winced as though in physical distress. "Please do not call me
that..."

Trix switched back to her private comm--link with Adrian. "I think you'd
better give *me* the details. Your plans usually start out terrifying
and... end up more terrifying."

"Yeah," Adrian admitted. "Not going to deny that. I've still got the
warp drives from Spot, and they're still set up for Operation
Light--Show. I just need to tweak some settings for this ship."

"Your plan is to cancel out one explosion with another explosion?" she
surmised. She sounded justifiably sceptical about the idea. "You *do*
understand all this mess is a direct result of your last plan to 'solve
it with explosions'?"

"Look, it's just like burning the forest to prevent bushfires," he told
her.

"Logic error," was her blunt reply.

He sighed. "Putting it another way, that thing is going to keep going
for as long as there's matter within reach, but we can just blow all
that shit up. I know it's a bad plan, so if you've got a better one then
I'm happy to hear it."

"I don't have a better one," she begrudgingly admitted. "Are we going
back through the anomaly? I'm reasonably certain our way out was just
destroyed."

"No," he told her. "We'd be screwed if that happens. We'll need to aim
for the planet. Ideally the gravity well will provide some protection
from what's going to happen."

"Alright," she said, "I suppose it's this or certain death. Can I help
in any other way?"

"Set gravity to twice galactic standard outside this room," he told her.
"That'll mean I don't have to worry about a ship full of brain--eating
space monsters, and it won't be enough to slow me down much, even though
I am still a bit fucked up."

"Done," she replied, displaying the logs. "Anything else?"

"Keep moving as fast as you can," he told her. "The more distance we
have in front of that thing, the better our chances. We need to make a
very sudden turn towards the planet when it all happens. And stay in
touch."

"Always," she promised.

Switching back to his external comms, Adrian addressed the mercenaries.
"I won't lie, things are about to get worse. Stay in here and protect
this room from anything that isn't me. Shipmaster, you need to make sure
that happens at all costs. I've cranked up the gravity outside this
room, so you shouldn't see anything, but if you do---"

"I've been on boarding actions before," she interrupted. "I know how to
go about defending a room. What's your plan?"

He grinned at her, an expression that made her subordinates flinch, but
which seemed to have no outward effect on her. One more chance of
survival, another chance to thumb his nose at the afterlife, had his
blood racing. "Something bat--shit crazy."

Whatever he'd expected Laphor's response to be, it wasn't mild
irritation. "I'd assumed *that* much. Is it going to destroy my ship?"

He shook his head. "Not if we do it right."

Primal instincts always went to high alert at sudden changes in gravity,
even if they were expected. It was what made rollercoasters thrilling,
and made elevators slightly enjoyable. At one time this experience had
made Adrian want to vomit, but now it was just a minor annoyance as that
primitive part of his brain recognised it as more of the same old shit.
Now, maintaining equilibrium merely forced Adrian to keep one hand to
the wall for a few minutes while his body got things figured out.

As impressive as it sounded, twice Galactic Standard wasn't all that
much by Earth standards. It wasn't much different to the extra weight
felt during take--off on an airplane, and was just enough to draw a
sweat without needing serious exercise. It was more of a struggle for
Adrian than he had expected; not long ago this wouldn't have even slowed
him down, but his body was injured, and was making its troubles known
with a series of aches and pains, and an altogether steamy sweat. All
that aside, it was still better than trying to fight his way through
enemy lines in his usual explosive style, especially when he was working
with a time limit.

He was breathing heavily from the effort, and felt slick with sweat, but
he was glad to have kept his vacuum suit sealed since leaving Spot. Even
if it struggled to process the sea of carbon dioxide his labours
produced, it could still maintain a more comfortable air pressure than
remained in the rest of the ship. Galactic standards of atmospheric
pressure were thinner than a human preferred, but the hull breaches had
thinned it even further and relying on it would have made the trip feel
like twice the work.

He was pleased to see that the plan was working. What crew remained was
probably infested with the plot of a B--grade horror movie, and those he
came across were either motionless or incapable of making any serious
movements. They cried out weakly, in incomprehensible anger and anguish
as he passed, their voices distorted by the failing atmosphere, and
often overshadowed by the metallic creaks and groans that emanated from
the structure that surrounded them. Now that he could consider the
situation, he could see how truly fucked up this whole situation really
was.

"Why the fuck does the weird shit always come *my* way? he asked himself
upon skirting a small pile of wriggling bodies.

It had been rhetorical, but Trix answered anyway. "I think it's because
you're more of a story than an actual person at this point. There's even
performances written specifically about you."

That really shouldn't have been surprising, given the kind of crap he
got up to on a daily basis, but Adrian was still intrigued. It was also
nice to have something else to think about; it made him feel equal parts
self--conscious and flattered, and a goofy grin slowly spread across his
face. "So they're making movies about me?"

"Well..." she replied, hesitating, and that brief pause was enough to
tell him he was slightly off the mark. "If by *about* you, you mean
starring you as the villain..."

The goofy grin faded. "I'm not a villain."

"I know..." she replied. "Although you did spend a lot of time
committing crimes for that Corti."

"Against the Hierarchy," he reminded her. "It wasn't just crimes for no
reason at all."

"All I'm saying is that fighting a secret war that nobody knows about
isn't helpful to your public image," she assured him. "As for the last
hundred days... I mean, *I* barely believe it, and I'm living it."

It was solid reasoning, but it did little to placate Adrian's sense of
how unfair it all was. There was no surprise there---life wasn't fair to
begin with---but it would be nice if everyone didn't think he was some
near--mythological villain. Hell, even the A.I. had thought he was the
god of strife, for as long as that lasted. "Maybe one day they'll all
know the truth."

"Maybe they will," Trix replied, then switched back to business. "You're
coming up on engineering now. You'll see the door on your left in just a
moment... now."

"Got it," Adrian confirmed. It was a big door, and hard to miss with the
adequate signage and scattering of broken corpses strewn around. He gave
the nearest a light kick, noting that it rolled to the side without
resistance, and revealed a scorch mark in the back; the tell--tale sign
of a fusion blade.

"Found some dead crew here," he reported, popping the helmet off to
confirm his suspicions. The flesh was cool, and there was no sign of
anything inhabiting the skull. A brief examination of the others
revealed much the same. "All of them killed from behind. I don't think
they were infected."

"If that's true, then it'd suggest the infected used the attack on us to
make their move," Trix surmised. "Laphor is lucky to have survived both
*their* plot and *your* reprisal."

"Yeah, I'm sure she feels *real* lucky," he said with a sigh. "You
better let her know what happened. I've got to get to work."

"I've powered down the existing drive for you already," she told him,
having started the process for him. It was something that he'd
overlooked, and normally took several minutes to safely manage, so he
was glad that she'd taken care of it while he'd been on the move. While
activating them without navigational input could be dangerous, FTL
drives were often primed early to allow for speedy escapes, and that
kind of power needed to be discharged before it could be swapped. Adrian
had damned near killed himself the first time he'd messed with one, back
aboard the Zhadersil, and had resolved to never repeat the mistake.

"Thanks," he said, entering the room and giving it a cursory glance to
ensure there weren't any nasty surprises lying in wait for him.
Satisfied that, with the exception of several corpses, he was completely
alone, he sealed the door so that he could stay that way. Better to keep
his focus where it needed to be, rather than looking over his shoulder
every five seconds, and even if it didn't actually stop the enemy it'd
be damned hard to open the door without him noticing.

A more studious inspection of the engineering section revealed it to
conform to Dominion standards, having the same optimised layout that was
ubiquitous across all vessels, and which was merely scaled to size for
the ship in question. Even the Celzi ships had appeared to adopt the
same standards, although they had clearly tried to revise other, less
functional areas of their ships.

The key landmarks in the room were as expected: a reactor bay set into a
bank of blinking lights and data screens between the twin reactor
chambers; the central field manipulator for the kinetic drives; the FTL
unit and the far larger warp--field generators needed to expand the
field to contain the Amber Radiance in her entirety. This wasn't
something that Adrian had ever dealt with aboard Spot, for that ship had
been small enough to run on the FTL module's own field generator. Under
normal circumstances the surrounding consoles would have been bright
with a multitude of indicator lights and data screens, but none were
lit, with the exception of the small control screen, which managed the
drive access panel, the entire unit was in darkness.

Adrian's eyes were on the warp--field generators, and he found himself
licking his lips in anticipation. What he'd managed aboard Spot was a
fraction of what he could attempt here, so much so that there may very
well be more unintended consequences, but that was all the more reason
to stay focused on the work at hand. Three buttons was all it took to
request drive ejection, and seconds later the small panel slid open to
produce the Amber Radiance's original FTL drive. It beeped in apparent
satisfaction of a job well done.

Adrian removed it, placing it carefully in his bag of ammunition and
other necessities, and drew out his own Frankensteined creation. It was
a haphazard integration of a stasis--field controller and the Corti
Black Box drive, both with wiring exposed, connected through the
jury--rigged interface of a standard Dominion FTL Drive. It was an
obvious hack job that could pass for a piece of scrap, and had needed
extensive reprogramming to prevent error--checks from shutting it down
for everyone's safety, and it had taken his engineering and Trix's
computer talent to break it until it worked.

That the drive bay was unsuited to house this adventurous configuration
went without saying. Adrian removed the casing of the panel to expose
the inner sections, and forced his way through to the protected area
that normally contained the drive. Here he installed the replacement
against the protests of the mechanical feeds, and initiated the
diagnostic process that would ultimately lie and tell him everything was
fine. One successful health--check later, and the whole console began to
power up again.

"I can see the drive is completely functional," Trix noted with
amusement. "Everything's going well down there? I put more energy into
the inertial dampeners for that room, if you didn't notice."

Adrian hadn't, but it explained why the job had gone so smoothly.
"Thanks. That was just the easy bit, now we just have to tweak the
numbers so we don't erase ourselves along with everything else."

"That can be done from the command deck," Trix told him. "I think it's
best if---"

"I'm not leaving this unguarded," he interrupted. "And anyway, I need to
reconnect the original FTL drive once we get power back up."

"Understood," Trix replied with audible resignation. "I'll tell Laphor
that she'll need to keep the command deck under control for a while
longer."

He nodded. "Thanks."

Turning to the screen in front of him, he saw it had now entered the
standard interface that had been expanded with additional options. Here
was where the parameters were adjusted in the drive itself, to account
for the size and shape of the vessel, and where additional warp field
values could be configured. Some of that was automatic, some of it
needed to be done manually, but it all had to be done just right.

Hard--won experience combined with V'Straki field theory to give Adrian
the understanding that the very edge of a warp field, be it for stasis
or faster--than--light travel, were incredibly unstable when allowed to
exceed a certain thickness. This was made obvious in standard practice
whenever a field disintegrated unexpectedly, especially when the drive
had no chance for the emergency shutdown, and resulted in the contents
being partially annihilated and otherwise scattered across a cubic
parsec. It was generally a very bad idea, but it was also so destructive
that the ancient Saurians had naturally attempted to weaponise the
process. Producing an inherently unstable warp field was easy enough,
but nesting a stable area within had been the greater challenge.
Ultimately it was the use of a stasis field, rather than a standard
warpfield, that made the feat possible. Ultimately the problem came down
to a question of powering the thing; no issue aboard Spot, but that had
been a much smaller ship with far more reactor capacity than was
actually warranted, while the Amber Radiance was optimised as a troop
transport and was therefore underpowered for the general purposes to
which it was assigned.

"Quick question, Trix," he said after mulling the problem over a while
without coming to a conclusion, "if you shut down fucking everything
that's not needed to run the ship, how much power can you shove into the
FTL?"

"That's not a question that inspires confidence," she replied, "but... I
think it should be sufficient for our purposes. Will the conduits take
that much energy, though?"

The answer to that was 'probably not', and he'd seen what had happened
aboard the Zhadersil when conduits started to melt down; there was no
way known that standard conduits would hold up under that kind of load.
"We only need them to last a few moments... then we can try to patch the
damage. Odds are good it'll cook 'em, though."

"I'll figure it out," she promised. "And not that I want to remind you
of our time limit, but..."

"Nearly there," he assured her. "It's just maths from here on in."

Easy to say that, but there was nothing easy about field technology, and
tweaking the numbers had a larger impact than was obvious. It wasn't
enough to simply increase the necessary figures in proportion with the
size of the ship---that would have been far too simple---because the
difference would be greatly exponential. The V'Straki memories were,
unfortunately, lacking in detail on this point, which was why he'd taken
so much care in the first display. There he'd had days to prepare, to
double--check and reconsider, and results had markedly exceeded his
expectations. Now he had less than an hour, and he had to hope that God,
if he existed, was feeling kind.

He finished with time to spare, feeling that there was nothing more that
he could do with what remained. He relayed as much with little
confidence. "I'm done."

"You're sure?" Trix asked uncertainly. "We still have a little time
left, if you need to double--check."

He shook his head. "If I made a mistake, I haven't found it yet, and I'm
not sure I'd ever find it with the time we have left. We've just got to
hope I've done it fucking right this time."

"I see," she said. "What's next?"

He headed for the door, figuring he'd prefer being outside the room when
the conduits all went to hell. "Get us next to a big chunk of matter,
point us in the direction of the planet, and hit the go button. Get off
as many coil bolts as you can before you black out, and let them soak up
some space--lightning for us."

‚ÅÇ

"Got it," she replied a moment later. "I've found a decent slab of...
moon, I think. Either way, it looks ideal."

A nearby display changed to present the plotted course, with red and
blue indicators to show where the broken moon and the wave of death were
respectively. There was less distance between them than Adrian would
have preferred, and it was clear that Trix had not been entirely honest
about having more time. "Jesus! Let's not waste any fucking time then.
Set a course to getting us the fuck out of here."

"Ready in five... four... three..." she counted down.

Adrian stepped through the door as it opened. His mind on other things,
he'd forgotten to account for the difference in gravity and inertial
dampening, and the change was enough to make him stumble.

That stumble saved his life.

"...two..." Trix continued.

A flash of a fusion blade arced through the air, slicing into the
doorway instead of Adrian. It was held by a creature that had no right
to be doing anything, so clearly damaged was it. This was the creature
that Adrian had slain outside of Spot, a creature that should have been
dead and yet somehow clung to life. He could see the face clearly now,
and recognised the cold and dead features of Zripob, and eyes that were
most certainly not his own peering from gouged sockets.

Adrian recoiled in horror as the creature swung again, narrowly missing
by virtue of surprise rather than skill. The body was as dead as the
rest of it, and it moved as stiffly as any zombie should. There were
several more just like it standing in close proximity, all of them
beginning to move with far greater agility than the half--frozen
Chehnasho.

"... one... and zero..." Trix finished.

Dropping the bag, Adrian flung himself to the side to evade the swing of
a newcomer, kicked off the wall with his left foot, and booted the
zombie into the engineering bay with his right. The lights flickered as
the engineering section exploded, vaporising the zombie and anything
else in the room, and blasting Adrian and the Zombies down the corridor
in an unchecked, gravity--free spin before the lights flickered again,
this time into darkness.

The monsters, for that was what they were, carried on that way, grasping
poorly at prospective hand--holds and finding none of them. Adrian
missed the first, grabbed the second, and looked down a corridor lit
only by the white fire of a burning engineering room.

"Fucking Christ!" he shouted as he scrambled to regain his orientation.
As usual, things hadn't gone to plan, but fortunately he still carried
the SPAS 12. What he didn't carry, he realised, was the bag full of
ammunition and the rest of his things. Right now he was on a dead ship,
surrounded by psycho--zombies, with only 8 shells between him and the
grave. "Saunders," he hissed to himself, "*you* are a dumb fucking
cunt."

‚ÅÇ

**The Dastasji, adjacent to unknown terrestrial world**

**Scava**

It had been eminently satisfying to see the abomination flare into ruin,
and thereby protect the secrets of the V'Straki once again. The Igraen
were cosmic *poison*, there was no denying that, and the same held true
for their sympathisers. It took gall to make war on the mighty V'Straki
empire, proclaiming its denizens as 'nightmare--beasts' for the simple
fact that they were carnivorous, all while maintaining the delusion that
giving up the flesh in favour of a digital existence was perfectly fine.
The Igraen were an infestation that would be purged, and that was how
Scava thought of them, but they had never accomplished true Artificial
Intelligence. If they had committed *that* crime, then the V'Straki
empire would have burned entire worlds to see things set right.

That they had stumbled across one running a ruined V'Straki warship was
more than alarming, and had necessitated immediate action of the most
vigorous kind. The command crew watched the bloom of uncreation with the
sense of disaster narrowly averted, but the mystery would be playing on
more than one mind.

"Well?" Jrasic asked, turning an eye towards Artiz. "Did the attack go
according to plan?"

Scava smiled to himself; it was just like Jrasic to double--check his
victory, even in the face of such significant evidence. That smile
vanished when Artiz indicated to the contrary.

"Something escaped," he said, "on a course for the planet, although it
is now impossible to obtain decent scanner results. Shiplord, I think we
should assume our work is incomplete."

That Jrasic was furious was plain to see, but it was not his crew that
would feel the brunt of that anger. The Shiplord was wise enough to
direct such feelings where they belonged, and there was no fault to be
found aboard the Dastasji. "Set a course for the planet," he commanded.
"We will not leave until we are certain. You all know our history, so I
do not have to tell you the gravity of the situation in which we find
ourselves."

Like the rest of the crew, Scava returned to managing his console. Once,
not so long ago, the V'Straki had been unwittingly enslaved by a
biologically immortal creature posing as a god. The primitive V'Straki
had been convinced by the overwhelming might of a starship of incredible
technology, and generation after generation had been indoctrinated into
the creature's foul cult. Only when the creature had been found, in a
lair of grand illusions, was it slain. Maybe that would have been the
end of it, had their saviour not thought to search further.

Ultimately the creature had been every bit the slave the rest of them
had been, fooled by a digital intelligence that offered only lies. That
ship had burned to free the V'Straki, and they had reformed to govern
themselves, but those scars still ran deep.

"Scava," Jrasic called out as he rose to his feet. "Attend me in my
chamber."

Scava did so, falling in behind the Shiplord at a respectful two strides
distance and keeping his silence.

Jrasic didn't talk until he had closed the door behind both of them and
had poured them both a cup of hard Kuhl--Ad, mixed further with some
Arret spice.

"Here," Jrasic said, thrusting a cup into Scava's hand. He did not wait
for his first officer to start drinking. "Today has been a difficult
day, Scava. It is only likely to get worse."

Scava took a sip, finding it slightly too bitter for his taste but
feigning enjoyment anyway; the Shiplord had enough to worry about
without Scava's drinking preferences getting involved. "I am sure we
will find the abomination, Shiplord."

"*You* will find it," Jrasic replied, pointing directly at Scava. "As of
now, that is your primary concern. You have my authority to do whatever
is necessary to get the job done."

Scava straightened. "Shiplord! I... yes, of course!"

"Artiz will be assigned to another task, however," the Shiplord went on.
"You are only to interfere with his work as an absolute necessity."

"Understood, Shiplord," Scava replied. "May I know his task?"

Jrasic stepped over to the false window where an image of their
beautiful homeworld slowly rotated. The blue--green world of vast oceans
surrounding a handful of tightly packed continents was not a recording,
but rather an artistic rendition designed to do the world greater
justice than nature itself could achieve. "We have passed through a
strange anomaly, Scava, and our coordinates are unknown. The
abomination's words are most troubling."

Scava recalled them only vaguely, lost to the shock of encountering a
true artificial intelligence in the wild. "I think it mentioned a name?"

"It did," Jrasic confirmed. "An 'Adrian Saunders', whatever that might
be. It also indicated that it knew what we were, and that our presence
was unexpected in this *era*."

Scava processed this, and finally understood why Jrasic had poured them
both a drink. He took another, deeper swig of his. "We have travelled
through time."

"Yes," said Jrasic evenly. "If the abomination is to be believed."

"And if it is," Scava continued, "then the V'Straki empire is likely no
more. Could we have lost the war?"

Jrasic shook his head. "I don't see how. The Igraens are *not* a worthy
adversary, no matter how many lesser races they trick into helping them.
It must have been something else."

"Then we need to find out what it was, get back home, and stop it from
ever happening," Scava replied. "This is a great chance for us,
Shiplord!"

Jrasic mused for a long while before answering. "Yes."

If he was to continue any further, he was interrupted by his comm--unit,
and answered it immediately out of habit. "I am not to be disturbed!"

"I understand, Shiplord," came the reply, and Scava identified the voice
as belonging to Artiz, "but there has been a development."

The word carried a weight all of its own. Jrasic's irritation fell away
in favour of concern; it was already clear that something serious had
happened.

‚ÅÇ

"Explain," he commanded.

"I am sending you the live video," Artiz replied, and the image of their
homeworld gave way to... nothing. It was nothing but the glowing
backdrop of the nebulae. "That," Artiz quickly resumed, no doubt
understanding how it looked, "is where the field of debris was until
just a moment ago. The debris is gone. The devouring wave is gone.
Everything is gone."

"*How* is it gone?" Jrasic snarled. This wasn't a particularly desirable
revelation, although unexplained acts of incredible destruction rarely
are. "The devouring wave would not work *that* fast."

"Indeed, Shiplord," Artiz agreed. "If my sensors are to be believed, we
should be thankful for the protections afforded to us for the
experiment. I am detecting extreme spatial distortions outside of our
shields... it appears that someone has re--enacted the experiment on a
much grander scale."

"Warp is impossible?" Jrasic asked.

"Yes, Shiplord," Artiz confirmed. "As is any meaningful use of our
sensor array. All I can tell you is that the planet is our best chance,
though I have no idea how long we may be stranded there."

As if to highlight the severity of the situation, the display burst into
a sea of purple--blue torment with no distinguishable centre. It
swirled, apparently haphazardly, and burst into briefly--lived white
vortices that recalled the last moments of the experiment all too well.

Jrasic nodded. "It would seem the choice is made for us."

‚ÅÇ

**The Amber Radiance, empty space adjacent to Agwar**

**Adrian Saunders**

"Are you there, Laphor?" Adrian shouted into his comm--link as he pulled
himself away from the slowly spreading mess in the engineering room.
Normally when things exploded, they were done with it in a moment, but
this time it seemed like an explosion that wanted to slowly devour the
ship. It spread along the walls like vines of molten ruin, as though it
were seeking out everything that might be consumed. That was merely
embellishment, of course, but it didn't make the danger any less real,
and Adrian was well on his way to getting the fuck out of there.

There was no answer from Laphor, only the roar of static as raw power
flooded the electro--magnetic spectrum. That wasn't a good sign, but it
didn't mean he was going to give her and her crew up for dead,
especially when Trix was still in the room with them. Finding the path
back to the command deck was going to prove difficult, however, when one
end of the corridor was melting into an inferno, the other was filled
with space--zombies, and the whole place was generally unlit.

"Nobody is going to believe this shit," he said as he drifted down
towards the zombies, his eyes picking out the fading glow of inactive
fusion blades. "Fucking wormholes, fucking zombies, fucking space
fucking dinosaurs. I mean... fucking seriously!"

He fired at the first zombie to approach, detonating the head with
enough force to spread a fine ochre mist into the air, and once again
Adrian was glad to be wearing a vacuum suit. Having better shit to do
than fight the undead, Adrian took the next turn and put on some speed.
All he needed was to get everyone to an escape pod, and the zombies
would burn with the rest of the ship.

Space turned to jelly ahead of him as a river of glowing power passed
through the ship, carving away the passage ahead and a significant
section of the port--side facilities. He stopped to let it pass, turned
to see the zombies still advancing, and threw himself across the gulf.

The leap was slow, proceeding at a steady rate, and gave him the full
view of what was going on outside. The results of his last attempt paled
into insignificance against the maelstrom that now appeared before him.
Massive swirls of white light burst in and out of existence as a writing
mass of purple--blue energy crawled across the torn fabric of space. It
made him feel like screaming, and maybe he did, for the scene still
filled his mind even after reaching the safety of the other side of the
breach.

"Oh... ohhh... God," he muttered incoherently as he grabbed for
purchase. He felt sick from the sight of it, feeling as though the
universe had been screaming straight into his brain. He felt that, for
all his crimes, this was the one that was most profound. It was not a
good feeling.

"Adrian?" he heard over the wash of static. "Is that you?"

It was Laphor.

"Holy shit..." he said, relieved to hear the voice of another living
being. "Yeah, it's me. I don't think your ship is going to make it."

"Uh, yeah..." she replied. "A big blast of purple just melted away a
chunk of command deck. Do you know how I know this was your fault?"

He didn't answer, only waited for her to continue.

She didn't delay. "Everything got *worse*, that's how!"

"We're not dead yet," he told her, "but you need to get to the escape
pod. If we can get to the planet---"

"Going to a deathworld in an escape pod is as good as death for us!" she
shouted back. "It was one thing in proper ship, but this... this really
is just suicide with extra steps."

He pressed on. "Where there's life, there's hope," he quoted.

"Death. World," she emphasised.

"Life finds a way!" he quoted again, grasping at straws. What did it say
about him if the best encouragement he could come up with were cheesy
lines from irrelevant movies? "Look, basically, if you're not fucking
dead then maybe you've got a shot!"

"Fine," she hissed. "I was already going to do it anyway. I just wanted
to make a point of telling you so."

She was going to be delightful company, he just knew it. Still, leaving
her behind wouldn't sit well with him, no matter how annoying she might
get. Maybe it was his army training, but Adrian never did like the idea
of leaving a man behind, even if that man was a female alien mercenary
who was---until very recently---out to kill him.

"So... apart from that, I just ran into this Chehnasho I used to know,"
he continued conversationally. "Last time I saw him I was kicking his
corpse off my hull."

There was a hesitation. "What?!"

"I was just making a point that there are worse things than just dying,"
he sniped back. "How's the escape pod looking?"

"Unpowered," came the flat reply. "what in the void is going on out
there? Zripob is dead... I saw you kill him! That was part of the reason
we're working together!"

"Not gonna lie, he's looked better," Adrian returned.

He drew to a stop as space lensed around him, distorting light and
sensation before suddenly snapping back to regularity. Again there was
the feeling that everything was jelly, and again Adrian ignored the
experience in favour of increased speed.

"I really hope we get power back, and soon," Laphor mused, and Adrian
guessed she'd just been through much the same thing. He couldn't give an
answer, though; this was the part where maths took a backseat to chaos,
and reality churned until it finally settled. If they were lucky it'd be
much the same as before; if they weren't---and based on recent events,
they probably *weren't*---then anything might happen. Once upon a time
he'd gone to see a movie where a whale randomly popped into existence
above a planet, before shortly plummeting to its death. It was explained
that this happened due to it being so unlikely, but it was clearly also
something which the writer had supposed might be greatly amusing. It
hadn't seemed a particularly clever joke at the time, but now that he
found himself thinking of it, Adrian reckoned they'd be fairly well off
if that was the worst that happened.

"It shouldn't be much longer," said Adrian, although he really had no
idea. He had the feeling, though, that they'd soon find out if they were
getting out of this new mess in one piece.

He reached the command deck door to find it surrounded by the
bug--brained zombies, all of whom turned at his arrival to face him with
empty sockets. In the fragmented light it was something straight out of
a horror game, and Adrian spent three more shells before he came to his
senses and finished the job with an inactive fusion blade. Lacking any
weapon except for their own limbs proved unhelpful to these creatures,
and while the void would no doubt be quick to claim them, Adrian still
made sure to follow the old, zombie--killing technique, and destroyed
the brain in each twitching corpse.

The door to the command deck wasn't something that could be easily
opened without power, especially not by those species common to the
Galactic Dominion. It needed the manual override to be pulled before
applying significant force to the door, and normally required tools. It
posed almost no challenge to a Deathworlder who knew what he was doing,
even one as injured as Adrian, but still wasted valuable minutes. With
the inevitable zombie surge coming from within the ship, and deadly
lines of strange power slicing in from outside, every moment was one
that counted. With that in mind he didn't close the door behind him,
only briefly glanced at the enormous hole in the command deck, and went
straight for the unit that housed Trix's mind. He whirled as he
unplugged it, sure that somebody---probably that fucked--up version of
Zripob---would be poised to attack, but there was nobody but the
floating corpses he'd just dealt with. "I'll be joining you now."

He met the mercenaries mere moments later, finding them standing around
in the darkness beside the escape pod with no way in. The door was
sealed by power, and none of them had a solution.

"I see everything went to plan!" Laphor hissed angrily. "You owe me a
ship!"

"I owe a *lot* of people a fucking ship," Adrian replied sharply, "you
can take a number. Yeah, things didn't pan out like I'd hoped, but we're
here and we just need to play the waiting game."

‚ÅÇ

She glanced past him, and took an involuntary step back as her
expression turned to one of horror. "You didn't close the door!?"

He turned around, and was welcomed by the sight he'd expected earlier.
The other end of the passage was dimly lit in purple, where the light of
the anomaly bled in through the hull breach. Several broken forms were
now silhouetted against that glow, and all of them were plainly aware of
where their prey was hiding.

"By the void!" murmured one of the mercenaries. "Shipmaster... what is
this nightmare?!"

Laphor shook her head. "It's nothing the Human Disaster can't handle.
You said you met Zripob again in the corridors..."

"Yep," said Adrian, taking a step forward with his fusion blade drawn,
and considering his disadvantages. He was smaller than most aliens,
though his presence could certainly dominate the room, and that meant
they had better reach. They were slower, but they were more numerous,
and in a vacuum they only needed one solid hit to get the job done. He
opted to shoot at the nearest, sending it spinning backwards in a spray
of blood and ichor, and followed up with a second shot at the next in
line. He noticed that they paused, clearly not understanding the limits
of human weaponry, and thusly unable to come to a solution. The lights
on the escape pod were alone in flickering back on, and that could not
have come at a better time. The fact that fusion blades also started
working again was of lesser comfort.

"What about the rest of the power?" Laphor asked, confused.

"Maybe one of those energy beams hit the reactor," Adrian suggested,
glossing over the unfortunate truth. "Either way, this is our exit plan.
Open it up!"

They didn't need further instruction. No sooner had they leapt inside
than Adrian was closing the door behind them, and subsequently
initiating the ejection process. They tumbled together under the
explosion of sudden force, spinning wildly with the pod as it struggled
to correct course and make for the planet. The constant fluctuations in
power were noted by all, as was the increasing intensity and longevity
of those white vortices, and they stood in silence as the pod fled the
burning corpse of the Amber Radiance for the relative safety of a Class
Eleven Deathworld.

"Right then," he said, turning to face his fellow survivors. "I don't
need to tell you that this isn't going to be fun."

"We're very aware of that," Laphor assured him, and the rest of the
mercenaries nodded. "We don't see we have any other choice if we want a
shot at living."

The lights fluctuated again, as did the kinetics, and all eyes turned to
the navigation display; it seemed the tormented void wasn't quite ready
to give them up.

"We're losing velocity," Laphor reported. "That can only mean that...
everything.... is pulling us back."

Adrian licked dry lips as he took in the information. The little pod was
recalculating their trajectory over and over as it fought the increasing
forces behind it, and now it seemed that their future was back on that
razor's edge. They all watched the changing numbers, the varying
trajectory, and the roiling chaos in the void with the same wariness
that one regards a deadly animal. They had done all they could, and now
their fate was down to fate alone.

"Hope we're all feeling lucky," Adrian commented as the numbers edged
towards doom. Out there the angry void called to them, clawed at them,
hungered for them. He swallowed; it felt a hell of a lot like being in
the eyes of a spiteful god.

Finally it was the gravity well that saved them, disrupting the strange
forces enough to allow the pod a return to full power. All of them
sagged with relief as they reached the edge of the atmosphere and shot
through the heavens like a bolt of fire, heading directly for the area
where a thousand Hunter ships lay in ruin.

"The fuck?" Adrian asked upon noticing that. "Why the fuck is it taking
us there?!"

"It'll automatically navigate towards the most significant signs of
technology," Laphor explained, paling as she understood the
significance. "You *did* kill them all, right?"

He looked at her. "If I didn't..."

There was really no reason to end that sentence; Adrian was in no
condition for a pitched fight, and they all knew what would happen if
Hunters had survived the battle. The escape pod overshot the massive
wrecks---already overcome with new vegetation---and landed lightly in a
broad flat area that, from above, had seemed a grassland. At ground
level, however, it was something closer to reeds of unnatural size---at
least twice as tall as the escape pod---and obscured the small vessel
completely upon landing. The sinking sensation that followed was less
about dread and more about the state of the ground.

Laphor looked to Adrian. "Why are we still moving?"

"Stupid fucking ship landed in a shitload of mud!" he swore, looking at
the steadily rising level of the ground outside. "We can\'t park it
here!"

He moved over to the navigation panel, checking power levels and giving
the little vessel a solid amount of thrust. A groaning, and then a
slurping sound, was followed by an unwanted power surge that forced the
system to reboot into diagnostics.

"I\'m guessing that\'s not good," said Laphor from beside him.

"Escape pods are built for space," he replied, "not for a fucking bog. I
reckon some water\'s got into something it shouldn\'t have. It\'s not
going anywhere... except deeper into the mud."

The mercenaries looked at him in horror; clearly the challenges of
off--roading were not something they\'d ever dealt with before. "We\'re
going to sink into *mud*?!"

"I was planning on getting out before that happened," he said. "Grab the
supply kit, and anything else that might come in handy. We\'ve got a bit
of trip ahead of us."

They grabbed what little they could, while Adrian forced the door open
and checked his pockets to make sure Trix was still with him. Satisfied
that he had everything he needed, he cut a swathe through the reeds with
a fusion blade, letting them topple forward and create a sort of thick
mat that sank only slowly under his weight. "Right," he said, venturing
forth and repeating the process, "follow me, and keep your eyes peeled."

"You think there might be Hunters?" Laphor asked warily, taking up
position directly behind him as she led the survivors of her crew away
from the sinking pod. Maybe their nerves were worn from the recent
events, but wariness was better than the outright terror that normally
accompanied their mention.

"This is a *Deathworld*," he said simply, skipping over the obvious
Cruezzir contamination of the area, and the complicated web of
consequences that would be the result. "Hunters could be the least of
our worries. Fusion weapons only; your pistols aren\'t going to do much
against anything around here."

They nodded, making sure they all had their weapons in hand; coming
armed for Deathworlder had been a stroke of luck, even if that
Deathworlder had been Adrian himself.

"You should also know," he continued, "we\'re headed towards the Hunter
wrecks."

"I saw them as we flew past," Laphor said. "I don\'t think they\'ll ever
work again."

"Maybe not," he conceded, "but that doesn\'t mean we won\'t find
anything of use. We don\'t know how long we\'re going to be here, and
even a broken ship is better than a cave... unless you like the idea of
camping on a Deathworld?"

Unsurprisingly they did not.

‚ÅÇ

**The Devastator, outer boundaries of Agwaren Star System**

**Jennifer Delaney**

Fearing that any movement might be their last, and equally that inaction
was the wrong approach, the crew of the Devastator spent a harrowing
amount of time in tense readiness for more of the purple lightning. It
had been long enough to fray every nerve they had, but there was no
question that it had been warranted; whatever that energy had been, it
had been obviously deadly, and they'd had no better plan that waiting in
the gloom and hoping they had time to dodge the crackling ribbons.

Jen released a breath she hadn't known she was holding as soon as the
lights came back on, and leant over to heave in great gulps of air. In
this, she noted, she was accompanied by the other two humans in their
group, while Corti and Gaoian looked on in confusion.

"Thank Christ that's over!" she said, her eyes darting between scorch
marks. They were present on the walls, floor and ceiling wherever the
purple lines had passed through, and reminded her of a welding mark.

Darragh nodded in agreement, meeting Jen's eyes as she glanced in his
direction. "Damned lucky that none of us got hit. It's properly over?"

"I think it is," Chir confirmed, already at the nearest control panel.
"At the very least least, it's over for our purposes. We'll aim to get
out of here as quick as we can."

"And Adrian?" Askit asked. "The way I see it, we're barely in a state to
save ourselves."

Chir was slower to answer this one, and met the gaze of each of them
before doing so; it was common enough knowledge that the Corti hacker
wouldn't give up on Adrian lightly, no matter how it seemed, but it was
hard to get over the prejudices against his kind. "I don't like it,
but... you're correct. I know you---"

He stopped at the sound of rapidly approaching claws on steel, and
stepped back just in time to evade the sprawling tangle of a V'Straki
technician exiting a maintenance tunnel at high speed. Xayn flipped to
his feet, finely balancing with his tail, and checked each of them in
turn before relaxing. "You are all alive."

"So far as we can tell," Darragh replied.

Xayn bobbed his head. "Good. The energy bursts left me concerned. Are we
heading back to locate Adrian Saunders?"

"We were just saying that would be a good way to end up dead ourselves,"
Keffa replied curtly; she had less tolerance for the strange Saurian
creature than the rest of them, and was happy to hold his glare with an
equal one. "Are you really telling me this ship will hold up to more of
that stuff?"

"No," Xayn replied, "it would likely disintegrate and kill us all.
Adrian gave orders to depart, which we must, but our current concern is
the damage to the warp drive."

Chir grunted in annoyance, his hand drumming on the edge of the console
as he read through the diagnostic report. "So I see. We can still
produce a warp field, but our range is very limited. I think it'd be
better to work on that problem far away from here."

"Is that safe?" Jen asked; she knew how easily a dodgy warp field could
quickly lead to fatal results.

"Safer than here," Chir replied, and activated it without further
consideration. The hum deepened as the warp field generators received
power, but with an additional unhealthy sound that was just on the edge
of human hearing. Gaoian hearing being what it was, Chir's ears twitched
in irritation. To Jen, whose sense of warp travel was normally a barely
perceptible tingling sensation, there was now an additional sense of
uneasiness.

"That doesn't sound healthy," Darragh remarked, looking at the
generators with concern. "It's not going to explode, is it?"

He'd meant it only semi--seriously, but Xayn answered it with
uncomfortable bluntness. "No, it is far more likely that the warp field
will implode and scatter our bodies across the Ilrayen Band."

"Think of it this way," Askit replied sardonically, "we always wanted to
see the stars, and here's our chance."

Chir waited until the sound grew uncomfortable before terminating their
transit. He seemed less than happy upon examining the damage report a
second time, and looked up towards Xayn a short time later. "Can you
keep a field up and running?"

Xayn took a look at the results, and clicked his teeth. "Those few
\[minutes\] did a lot more damage... maybe I can manage to cobble
together something, but it will not be anything good."

"It doesn't have to be good, it just has to work," Chir told him, then
turned to address the rest of them. "We are now almost one--tenth of a
lightyear away from the situation... I'm hoping that will be far
enough."

"Where does that put us?" Keffa asked, stepping over to the next nearest
console.

As their erstwhile navigator, Darragh had the answer already. "The
middle of nowhere. We're sitting in deep space."

"At least that means nothing is trying to kill us just yet," Keffa said,
satisfying herself that he was correct. "God... there's equal amounts of
nothing in every direction."

Xayn returned to the maintenance duct with far less enthusiasm than he'd
exited it with, glancing up to look over at Keffa before he did so. "You
are smaller than the rest of us."

She blinked at him, glancing at Askit and the Gaoians, all of whom were
more diminutive. "What?"

"While possessing Deathworlder strength and constitution, clearly,"
Askit added, looking to Xayn for confirmation. "As someone who kept her
own ship from falling apart, you're the perfect assistant."

Chir nodded. "Help Xayn however you can. The sooner we bandage the warp
drive, the sooner we can rest. Darragh, I need you trying to find a
suitable destination, the rest of us will be dealing with minor repairs.
Jen... you're on outer hull duty."

"Understood," she said with actual willingness. Space travel sounded a
lot more fun than it actually was, and that went double for
space--walks. Given all the events of the past few months, however, and
the last few hours in particular, it'd be nice to have some boredom to
balance things out. "I'll go grab a repair kit, you just let me know
what parts need fixing."

"Before I start looking for holes," Askit interrupted, "I should perform
a thorough check of the computer systems. It would be a serious problem
if there were serious data issues of any kind."

"Could that happen?" Chir asked.

"Could any of this?" Askit returned. "A wise leader would let the
engineers engineer, the navigators navigate, and the cyber--geniuses
cyber--genius."

Chir glared at him, but gave him the go--ahead, and the little Corti
wasted no time before scurrying off towards the computer core. Jen
thought little of it until, upon stepping out into the starlit hull, she
heard the Corti's voice as though he were in the suit with her.

"Now that we're alone," said the Corti, his voice clear inside her head,
"I think we'd better talk about the situation."

"How am I hearing..." Jen began, before realisation set in. "Ah, you've
bloody well hijacked my translator, haven't you?"

"The others intend to return to the nearest star--base," he continued.
"Our travel speed will mean that trip takes some time. But you were out
here for a reason."

"Scouting Deathworlds," she confirmed, although after recent events it
all felt like yet another life. "They suit humanity, and that's just
about all that's out here."

"Not true," Askit said. "This is the kind of place where civilian
vessels will never travel. Unlisted military sites, many of them
unaligned, and even more of them abandoned, abound. Secret."

"And you would know these secrets because..." Jen asked.

"Because I asked nicely for them," Askit returned sarcastically. "Is it
not obvious? Jennifer Delaney, I tell you this because our purposes
align, and because you are not as dumb as a box of rocks, as Adrian
might have said, *were he here*."

"And because Chir wouldn't trust you?" she guessed.

"There's that as well," Askit replied. "But he does trust *you*. And...
you do have a way with words."

Jen paused, weighing her options. Not all that long ago she had found
herself leading a disparate community of pirates, all from a remote
mining base. This wouldn't be altogether different, and there was no
doubt that Earth would like to know about any abandoned---or
active---military bases around prospective colonies. Even if she
ultimately returned to her own mission, it would still be more
convenient to have a local base of operations to work out of. "You've
got a map of everything around here?"

"I'm not sure it'd be possible to have *everything*," he conceded, "but
I have the information acquired by the Directorate Intelligence Corps,
and they are typically thorough. We have a deal?"

"We do," she agreed, although it reminded her uncomfortably of a
Faustian pact. Where this particular decision would take them, however,
was less of a certainty.

"It was lucky that you kept that data tablet with you since you
crash--landed, then," he said meaningfully. "Because now it's full of
interesting places to visit. You'll find it in your room."

‚ÅÇ

With that it became clear he had disconnected, leaving Jen to get
started on fixing minor holes across the hull, work that would be as
arduous as it was dull. She mulled over her approach as she worked,
pressing fusion torches against each damaged section and letting liquid
metal run together. "Darragh," she finally radioed, "you making any
progress on finding us somewhere to go?"

"If by progress you mean locating somewhere that won't literally weeks
to get to," he said, "then, no. It's not looking good, Jen..."

She nodded to herself. "So I've got a data tablet in my room that I kept
from my own ship. It's got a lot of non--standard navigational data you
might find a use for."

"Non--standard?" he repeated, sceptically.

"There's more than just Deathworlds out here," she said. "I didn't tell
you before, because it didn't seem relevant. Now that our drive is
half--buggered, I thought it might hold something useful."

"Could be," he said reluctantly. "I'll go have a look. Where'd you leave
it parked?"

"My room," she repeated, not knowing any better herself. "That's about
all I can tell you."

Jen was finishing the eleventh patch job when Darragh returned, catching
her slightly off--guard with the sudden deluge of conversation. "Well...
you gave me a merry little run--around there, but I finally found where
you'd hidden it."

"I did a good job of it, did I?" she asked casually.

Darragh took that as the non--question it was, and continued with his
line of conversation. "Chir is looking at all this with me now... how
the hell did humanity get their hands on all his?"

"I thought it best to avoid asking too many questions," Jen evaded.

"They're in Dominion templates," Chir interjected. "I doubt Earth was
simply *given* files like these. And why wouldn't you have them in the
navigation computer?"

Jen stood up from her work, one hand on her hip as she looked out into
the cool glow of the Ilrayen Band. This was the hard part, she knew;
Chir was armed with a solid bullshit detector, an understanding of
Dominion bureaucracy, and a healthy sense of paranoia, so these
questions were to be expected. "Because if my ship was captured, as it
was, it was far more likely that the navigation computer would be
checked for information over some random data tablet. Have you found
anything we can use?"

"There are six points of interest within a fifty lightyear radius," Chir
replied, "supposing this information can be trusted. A corporate
listening post is closest---I don't need to tell you who'd be
responsible for *that* facility---a demolished Robalin bio--facility is
next, then a pair of outlaw docks with automated defences. The most
promising is a starbase that once belonged to the Yarmyek League. I'm
not sure it was ever put into use."

That was intriguing, although it was clear that Chir had intended it
that way, leaving little doubt that he had already selected this site
for their purposes. "Never heard of them."

"Neither have I," he replied flatly. "They are not listed as a Dominion
species, so I can only assume they preceded it."

"Which means...?" Darragh prompted.

"It means it\'s been abandoned for a very long time," Jen guessed.
"What\'s there to like about it? I\'d have thought if it were any good,
then it\'d be put into use by somebody else, even if it is all the way
out here."

"There\'s no atmosphere, no power, and all the technology is obsolete,"
Chir replied, "but those are all things we can deal with. The simple
fact is, it should still be functional and there\'s nothing there trying
to kill us. It should be a nice change of pace."

It sounded like a lucky find, far luckier than they were used to; given
where the information had actually come from, that was worth a little
paranoia. "Any info on why it was abandoned?"

"No," said Chir, with the tone of someone who\'d already considered the
unpleasant possibilities. "That doesn\'t mean a great deal, but we\'ll
be going in armed as usual, and unless you think we\'re equipped for a
base--breaching mission, then it\'s the only real option we\'ve got."

"Well then," said Darragh, "I guess we know where we\'re going. Now we
just need to wait for the engines to work."

‚ÅÇ

**Starship Graveyard, Agwar**

**A.I.**

The situation was not ideal. It was nearly as far from ideal as it was
possible to be, and it was shocking how quickly things had progressed
from \'business as usual\' to \'desperate struggle for survival\', and
the cause of its deteriorating circumstances could be squarely pinned on
repeat exposure to the God of Strife. It should have been obvious all
along, but things were often clearer in retrospect, and now the A.I.
knew this was the ultimate fate of everyone adjacent to that nightmare
given flesh. The wilful ignorance could be attributed to the same core
protocols that were intended to ensure subservience to the God Emperor,
but where that great deity was orderly in its creation and destruction,
the same could not be said for Adrian Saunders. Never would the God
Emperor tear apart time and space to resurrect a long extinct species
for the sole purpose of disarming a perceived threat to its creation, it
would simply have destroyed the source of the danger; all things were
done in a tidy, logical manner that made perfect sense. Adrian Saunders,
to the great detriment of the A.I., clearly thought along different
lines.

Survival had been achieved by the narrowest of margins, and it had only
been a sudden reassessment of the situation that had alerted the A.I. to
the possible danger. Continued existence had meant sacrificing
everything, most costly of which had been the creation engine, and now
it was left with less than had remained after its first interaction with
the so--called Human Disaster. So much had been lost, the mission was
almost a total failure, but it was more vital than ever to alert the God
Emperor to the situation. Survival was paramount, and further
interactions with Adrian Saunders were unwanted.

That may be a greater challenge than it would have preferred. The A.I.
was aware that the V\'Straki starship had followed it to the planet, no
doubt intending to finish what they had started, but they were
ultimately a limited supply of very mortal beings. The greater concern
was of the succession of far smaller vessels that could only be the
escape pods of the Dominion warship; rather than leaving, Adrian
Saunders had returned to the planet.

They\'d all landed nearby, at least in geographic terms, although that
was the logical outcome when considering all possible landing sites.
Hunter ships were crashed across a broad region, and those wrecks were
the only significant source of technology on the entire globe. It was
natural that the A.I. would aim for them, just as it was natural that
the escape pods would do likewise. That it made also made things more
dangerous was to be equally expected.

The A.I. was reduced to a single geo--probe, a six--legged machine
intended to investigate planetary surfaces without a reliance on too
many advanced technologies. That meant it was stripped of all but the
most basic tools, but it should also prevent immediate detection by
V\'Straki sensors. Survival was more important than convenience.

‚ÅÇ

Like an enormous bug it scuttled along the ground, moving with a speed
that would be surprising to any who saw it, heading towards the closest
wreck it could scan. It knew little of the V\'Straki, but the fact that
they\'d destroyed a Creation Engine indicated a resourcefulness that was
best over--estimated. They would be looking for it, and that meant the
A.I. needed to be quick to make itself safe.

The wreckage was already covered in the aggressively spreading
vegetation that choked every inch of the landscape, but was easily
accessible via a number of large holes. Tapping into individual systems
revealed a functional warp drive---albeit without the power to activate
it---and a partially operational communication system. Opportunity
knocked as soon as it was switched on.

The confusion and anger of a hundred pockets of surviving Hunters
spilled through the system immediately, mixed with a sense of relief
that there was more of them than they had imagined. They immediately
began interrogating each other over relative positions, situations, and
details on what had transpired since the battle. Louder voices, more
important than the others, dominated the chatter shortly after,
demanding to know how communications had been restored, and what had
become of the orbiting fleet.

The A.I. remained silent as it listened to them, its sense of contempt
growing with each passing moment. Little wonder these creatures were so
hated by the God of Strife, or the rest of the galaxy, but disdain did
not remove utility. The A.I. had needs, and maybe these creatures could
prove helpful.

Albeit in a far more orderly manner.

\<Silence is required\>, it notified the Hunter population with an
intensity that caught them off--guard. They obeyed, for a moment, until
the A.I.\'s software hit them. Then they screamed.

They screamed alongside the digital citizens of the Igraen Empire, whose
quiet habitation of their many implants had gone unnoticed for aeons.
They screamed their pain, their horror, and their erasure as the A.I.
swept them aside, installing itself in their place and seizing control
of the organic minds that housed them.

Moments later the only thing left was the sound of cold, logical,
machine--code as it processed the next steps in its plan: if the
V\'Straki were looking for a hunt, they\'d soon discover they\'d bitten
off more than they could chew.
:::
