---
title: Ships in the Night
---

# Ships in the Night

\

\

::: chapter
**Date Point 3 Years 2 Months After Vancouver**

**Cimbrean**

Hrbrd had fled the palace as soon as he had heard the all too familiar
sound of robotics followed by screams. There was something to be said
for having survived one awful situation and that was that the experience
could allow one to survive similar circumstances in future.

Not that he particularly wanted to re--experience near death and a
harrowing run for safety, but it was better than actual death. You
didn\'t get to learn anything from that.

For the past four days he had kept to the small cave in the forest he
had managed to find and seize from a small furry creature that had been
storing a wonderful stockpile of nuts. The Allebenellin had not found
him, and as he frequently heard sounds of continued violence he
suspected that they were still skirmishing with the pirates.

The pirates hadn\'t found him either, and that was also fine by Hrbrd.
It wasn\'t as though his life had improved by their entering it, and
while the Allebenellin remained any regrouping would just make him a
bigger target. Besides, the furry creature had given up on trying to
reclaim its nuts, and Hrbrd wasn\'t about to give up on his hard won
spoils of war.

Then had come the day of the final battle, the sounds of coilguns firing
through the atmosphere sent a loud rumble through the woodland that had
terrified the wildlife. It had terrified Hrbrd as well, for that matter,
since he was in a better position to understand the dangers it indicated
than the small furry things were.

A ship had exploded, and then another, and then there was silence. Hrbrd
had wondered what that had all meant -- had even contemplated going back
to see for himself -- but an answer soon came.

More rolling thunder from the coilguns, but this time from the pirates.
That *had* been surprising, since Hrbrd well knew from his final, rushed
conversation with the Rauwryhr female that they were operating under
advanced cloaking systems beyond even those used by the Hunters.

When Hrbrd had heard that, he knew for certain that at least the major
points of the Heirarchy conspiracy theories were true. That they were a
powerful organization operating in secret behind the Dominion, with
enough influence to determine its actions. That they possessed advanced
technology which they kept a few steps ahead of the curve. That they
would do anything to stay in power.

That was why they had come for Hrbrd when he had begun to threaten that
power. There couldn\'t be any other explanation for why they had acted
so openly. They had torn down his life and had turned him into a wanted
criminal.

But with all of that done, he thought there had been no reason for them
to give chase. That made no sense to him, until he began thinking about
who else was on this planet with him.

A group of pirates who were pushing the Celzi Alliance interplanetary
economy to the brink of collapse, a Rauwryhr weapons designer who had
found a talent for taking human and standard weapons and combining them,
and a Chehnasho and a Gaoian who were becoming skilled military leaders
in their own right.

A den of famed criminals had seemed like a safe place for a man branded
as such, but it now appeared that it was anything but. Hindsight and all
that.

He was just considering how much longer the pirates could hold out when
the forest was shadowed by the bulk of an Allebenellin troop ship rising
towards the sky, its cloaking system apparently having suffered
extensive damage.

It rose high under sustained fire, moving west towards the coast, and
then it had been hit by the heaviest coilgun barrage Hrbrd had ever
heard of being directed at a single vessel. It was destroyed in the
first volley, but the guns did not stop, and the whole world seemed to
shake with the endless roar of thunder.

He wasn\'t sure what that meant until two Hunter vessels rose skyward.
Then he realized that it had just been the impossible happening. The
pirates had just beaten back what the Heirarchy had thrown at them and
were about to take back the orbital defenses.

It was a victory.

And Hrbrd was terrified about what was to come.

⁂

**Aratas, Celzi Heavy Cruiser, Far Reaches**

Fleet Master Cizziz was not a stupid man. You did not become Fleet
Master of the Alliance 5th Fleet if you were a simpleton.

Others might have bought into the story that the two *humans* had told
him, but Cizziz was smarter than that. He had given them a story in
return while he set about tapping his own sources to find out the truth
of it, and had continued with the farcical interrogations until he had
it all figured out. He had been hoping that they might also let
something slip, and there was every possibility that they had -- there
was the accidental slip about ties to the Celzi leadership after all --
but for the most part it had been nonsense mixed with lies, and all that
revealed was extensive training in the arts of deception and confusion.

His adjutant had suggested simply jettisoning the lot of them -- in so
doing they would simultaneously rid themselves of a problem as well as
comply with the Hunters\' ultimatum -- but Cizziz hadn\'t wanted to
upset anybody important. The Human Russians -- Cizziz wasn\'t sure if
they were subspecies or something even more unusual -- may take offense
at their potential allies dumping members of their world into space.

Then had come the news about Cavaras, a very interesting set of concerns
that answered where the space station had come from and gave every
suggestion that the recent spate of violence the planet had endured was
linked to a pair of humans.

"What to do, Xova?" He asked, looking over to his adjutant. She was a
pretty thing for one so capable, and it sometimes took all he had to
remain professional. Taking her as a mate would cause an endless list of
problems down the line that he may not be able to correct.

She looked up from her own work. "Fleet Master?"

"The humans, Xova. If my guess is accurate, they caused the Corti a
great deal of trouble," he said. "Ongoing trouble in fact."

"That doesn\'t mean they\'re on our side, sir," Xova replied. She
preened herself absently, stroking her fine talons through her soft
brown feathers; he wondered if she realized what that did to him.

"It does mean that they could be willing to help against these pirates,"
he said. "If the appropriate reward was on offer."

"Or threat," she suggested. "Their son--"

"Will not be harmed by us, Xova," he admonished her, although he
remained pleased by her capacity to think of such things. "I do not
particularly want to deal with angry humans, and I *know* you have read
the same reports that I have."

"Then perhaps honesty is in order?" she asked. "Give and you may receive
in kind."

He sighed. That had been the direction he had been considering, but it
did not please him to freely show his brkti in the hope that they would
show theirs. That was not bargaining from a position of strength, but he
didn\'t feel as though he had much choice.

Perhaps the opportunity to stack the brkti to his advantage would arrive
during or after such a frank discussion. It was worth it if they could
do to the pirates what they had done on Cavaras.

"Xova," he said, "I want you to arrange a private discussion with the
dominant human. It\'s time for the leaders to talk business."

⁂

Jennifer Delaney. Mid--twenties, sexually frustrated space--babe pirate
queen, colonial governor, space debris impersonator and possible
prisoner--slash--guest of the Celzi military. Today had started with
food tablets, kisses and cuddles and hands being everywhere, and an ill
timed question from Askit about the human growth cycle which she\'d
tried her best to explain with her mouth while her mind focused on
something altogether.

Each day they had been interrogated poorly, although she did half wish
they\'d just take Askit in for a solitary chat so that she and Adrian
could put two weeks of sexual frustration to an end. There was only so
much groping she could handle before the walls of civilization broke
down and she threw herself on him, observed by the Corti or otherwise,
until the urge was finally satisfied.

And today when the soldiers had come for them, the *had* said only one
would be needed. She just hadn\'t expected it to be her.

Adrian had tried to interfere -- that was him trying to protect her, and
with his arm now fully healed he could easily have done so -- until she
had laid her hand on his shoulder and told him that everything would be
fine. She hadn\'t even been lying, or at least she didn\'t think she had
been, because thus far the weapons were still the standard kinetic pulse
guns that slapped unpleasantly hard, unless you happened to be a
muscular Australian soldier in which case it was more like minor skin
irritation.

She wasn\'t sure why that was, whether it was the drug that had changed
them both, or his hard living, or if it was because he was a man or just
plain old genetics. He didn\'t know either, but when she\'d slapped him
hard on the arse one time he\'d seemed to have felt it just fine.

She sat down across from Cizziz -- or big bird as he was privately
called -- again for the umpteenth time and put everything out of her
mind as best she could. Cizziz seemed to be under somewhat more stress
from what she could tell, so it wasn\'t going to be good news, but as
the big guns hadn\'t yet come out and he was sitting five feet away with
no hope of surviving a sudden attack, she didn\'t expect it was going to
be the sort of news that ended with somebody dead.

"En--jay," he said, greeting her. "I trust you are well?"

"Well enough, Fleet Master," she replied politely. All of those customer
service skills were finally coming in handy *outside* of her workplace.
"You, however, seem troubled." "I am," he said, "so allow me to be
candid. I know that you and Drian--Ay are not these \'Uman--hays\' you
claimed to be."

Jen\'s heart almost froze in her chest, and she quickly swallowed her
fear to continue to seem comfortable. She\'d been through too much
horror to feel overwhelmed by sitting in a room full of things that
*couldn\'t* kill her.

"Go on," she said. "I\'m interested in seeing where you are going with
this."

"That species is apparently covered in blue hair," Cizziz said
matter--of--factly. "Your names belong to a pair of such creatures known
to have stolen from the orbital factory in Irbzrk."

Jen nearly laughed; of all the places she\'d been expecting this
conversation to go, that had not been one of them. "Your research is
excellent, Fleet Master Cizziz," she said, her lips twitching with the
threat of breaking into a smile. "But that\'s not the whole of it, is
it?"

"No," Cizziz replied. "But I do know all about Cavaras."

She wasn\'t as surprised by *that* revelation, but she raised an eyebrow
anyway to let him think he\'d shocked her. Adrian had suggested that
particular technique to confuse him, and once again it seemed to work.

Cizziz clucked out his bird--laugh. "Surprised you, didn\'t I? I know
that you\'re actually humans -- please relax, the Celzi Alliance has
entered into serious negotiations with the Russian subspecies of your
kind -- and we know that you caused quite the bot of chaos on Cavaras.
So much so that I think it\'s fair to say that you are enemies of the
Directorate, hm?"

That had been a lot to process, and Jen sat back to properly do so.
"Negotiations with the Russians?" she asked, trying to fathom the
consequences if an agreement went ahead.

"They are already beginning to augment our forces," he explained. "They
will give us an edge we desperately need."

There was, she decided, no way to really talk about this with anyone but
another human, and even then only one that could understand the
ramifications of an alliance. For the moment, however, there were other
things to consider.

"You\'re not afraid of the Hunters?" she asked. "If they find out we\'re
aboard..."

"Then they will be facing two humans provided with all the support we
can give them," Cizziz replied. "I hope you don\'t have a problem with
that? You do seem capable of causing a considerable amount of death and
destruction if the reports are to be believed."

"You\'re looking very comfortable for someone who thinks that," she
said, gesturing to the handful of ill equipped guards.

"I believe that if you intended me to come to harm, then I would already
have arrived," he told her. "In fact, I even hope to employ you."

"You want to *employ* us?" Jen asked, now fully unable to mask her
shock. When she\'d started this conversation she hadn\'t expected it to
turn into a job offer.

"Yes," he said, amused once again. "You see there are some pirates I\'d
like you to help me take care of."

⁂

Adrian had been pacing the pen since they\'d taken her, glancing at the
door at every sound and turning his eyes to his bare wrist so often that
he resolved to, come hell or high water, get himself a new watch. Maybe
a little present to himself for Christmas, whenever it was.

When Jen had finally returned he had barely restrained his desire to run
over to her and swing her around in a bear hug. That was how he\'d
behaved when he had first started going out his wife -- a fact he should
probably inform Jen of in the near future, along with some other unhappy
memories -- and he was determined to be somewhat more restrained in his
behavior this time around.

He realized upon reading her expression that she wouldn\'t have been in
the mood for it anyway. Trouble was brewing.

"I\'ve got news," she said as he and Askit arrived to meet her. "The
first thing you should know is that I am in charge."

"What!?" Adrian asked, more abruptly than he had intended, and received
a very pointed glare in return. It wasn\'t that he thought Jen
*couldn\'t* be in charge -- she\'d proven herself capable enough with
running the pirating operation -- but he\'d become used to being the one
in charge of everything.

"They know that we\'re humans," she said, holding up a hand to stop him
from blurting out anything stupid. "And they know some of what happened
on Cavaras. And they want to employ us."

"*Employ* us?" he asked once she\'d lowered her hand. "But you--"

"I know," she interrupted, a sly smile making its way to her lips. "They
want us to take down the human running the pirate base. They want us to
take down Jennifer Delaney."

"And you\'ve *accepted* this job?" Askit asked. "Isn\'t that going to be
problematic to achieve?"

"I\'ve accepted the job," she said with a cheeky grin, "because it pays
well and the Fleet Master is bending over backwards to get our help."

Adrian stared at her in amazement. He had to admit he liked this
confident, intelligent, slightly cocky Jen. More than the frail girl
who\'d only ever depended upon him. "I think I could kiss you."

She smiled back and stepped into his embrace. "If you\'re lucky I might
even let you."

Adrian stared down, fully captivated by her smiling face. "I\'m feeling
a little lucky."

"Is that so, Mister Saunders," she asked, pressing her body against him.

"Excuse me," said Askit, "but I still don\'t understand how we\'re going
to to achieve success."

Adrian and Jen sighed together and turned to the intrusive Corti.

"We\'re not achieving *their* success," Jen explained. "We\'re achieving
mine."

"And what is *your* goal?" Askit persisted.

"Same as always," Jen told them. "To protect my people, to kill the
Hunters, and to rob the absolute shit out of everyone else."

⁂

**Cimbrean**

Chir growled softly in frustration, mourning Trycrur and all those lost
to the invasion. It was victory, but it hardly felt like it, and with
the Celzi fleet on its way they didn\'t have enough time to conduct the
proper rites.

He turned to Zripob. "Have we found anybody else?"

"Nobody," Zripob replied grimly. "We can commence the orbital
bombardment as soon as Darragh advises, but I expect we\'ll be able to
leave shortly after it gets dark."

"Seems a shame," Chir said. "All that hard work gone."

"It isn\'t gone," Zripob rebuked, taking Chir by the shoulder. "We are
hurt, yes. But we are not broken. We take what we can, given what\'s
left to take, and the rest we destroy. We start again, better equipped
than we were when we left the Zhadersil, and then, Chir... we find who
did this. We make them *pay*!"

Chir nodded slowly, his anger burning just as hot as Zripob\'s, and it
didn\'t feel like that flame would ever die away. He didn\'t *want* it
to die, he wanted to *stoke* it and use it to burn away the lives of
those Allebenellin bastards like they had done to so many here.

"Where do we go then?" he asked. "I am only familiar with the colonies
and trading lanes in the area."

Zripob smiled slyly. "That is where we have gone wrong," he said.
"We\'ve gone from the Zhadersil, to Cimbrean, and we just kept working
out of places that don\'t move."

"You\'re thinking we should use some sort of battleship?" Chir asked.
"That may be problematic to--"

"Not a battleship," Zripob said, and there seemed to be a sense of
slow--burning excitement inside of him. "We can make a base elsewhere."

"*Make* a base?" Chir asked. "That is a *ridiculous* amount of work,
Zripob! We don\'t even have the materials to do it!"

Now Zripob\'s smile had grown full. "That\'s the clever bit, Chir.
Don\'t you recall all of those asteroid mines we raided? How many of
them were abandoned? How many are still full of materials and would
easily be turned into what we need?"

Chir considered this; it was true that there were many secret bases out
there built inside of asteroid fields, but they were usually immobile.
It wasn\'t impossible though, not with everything they had available to
them, or could steal, or even mine for that matter, although the idea of
such a banal misuse of his soldiers effort was enough to set his teeth
on edge.

That would also mean they\'d never have to worry about being found by
Alliance scouts again, or by whomever the Allebenellin were working for.
It would take effort, but that was true of anything worth doing.

"You\'re right," he decided. "That\'s our best option if we don\'t want
to go running back to the Dominion cowering like jhevek?"

Zripob chuckled. "Well, I know that I\'m not going to be like any
jhevek! And you can leave this one to me, Chir... I have some
experience."

"Do I want to know?"

The Chehnasho shook his head, and his smile turned cold. "No," he said.
"You don\'t."
:::
