# S - Two Out of Three
***Salvage***

---

**Hospital, Irbzrk Orbital Factory**

"God. Fucking. Dammit!" Jen raged, smashing her fist against the wall
until it hurt. She seethed in fury, cursing at the pain before repeating
the process, all the while fully aware of how the Corti doctor and the
other aliens kept their distance.

She was pissed off. Beyond pissed off. She was boldly exploring new
lands in being pissed off. She was angrier than she had ever been in her
entire life, and she didn\'t have the first idea how to properly express
it.

She\'d tried crying uncontrollably, and that hadn\'t fucking worked
either!

"None of you fuckers better know where he is and are keeping it a
secret!" she snarled at the terrified onlookers, although at this point
she was sure if anybody knew they would have told. From what they *had*
told her, Adrian had dropped her off here for medical attention while
she was unconscious, and had then pissed off to god knew where.

She still couldn\'t believe he\'d strangled her! She\'d trusted him, and
she\'d thought he\'d felt something for her. What kind of fucked up
person strangles someone they like?

It was time for another bout of uncontrollable sobbing!

The situation was just such a horrific mess that even Trycrur and Chir,
normally on Adrian\'s side no matter the situation, had empathised with
her on this one.

Empathy was another thing you couldn\'t expect from a broken human
being. She made a mental note to go over every situation where he\'d
seemed even the least bit empathetic, starting from when he\'d first
rescued her from the Blue Encounter.

"Trix?" she called out, looking around for the Rauwryhr girl until she
saw the bat--like form hiding awkwardly in the crowd. "Trix... please
come here, I promise I won\'t hurt you."

Trycrur hesitated, and that managed to make Jen feel worse, like *she*
was some kind of monster. "Please," she beckoned again, more gently.

That seemed to have been enough because Trycrur made her way over,
albeit warily, and stood just out of thrashing distance.

"Trix," she said, "I can\'t just leave it like this. It\'s doing my head
in! Please, is there anywhere you think he might have gone?"

Trycrur shook her heard sadly. "He\'s not aboard the Zhadersil, I know
that much. He took the \'Shopping Trolley\' out again after he\'d
dropped you off here. Chir just went out to Affrag to scan for him
there, but if that\'s where he is he\'s got it cloaked."

"Fucking cloak," cursed Jen, running trembling fingers through her hair,
then across her still--sore throat where Adrian\'s arm had been pressed.
She could still feel it, the raw terror of suffocation, the feeling of
dying in the arms of someone you had trusted. "Fucking spaceships..."

She sighed. "As soon as you hear anything..."

Trycrur nodded. "You\'ll be the first to know."

"Thank you," Jen said quietly. "And Trix... did you ever think he could
do something like this?

Trycrur sighed, looking away contemplatively before answering. "I always
knew he was incredibly dangerous. That was always the exciting bit. But
when you hear stories about humans on the networks, you only hear about
how dangerous they are, or the impressive things they have done, or on
the other side of it the sacrifices they have made to protect others.
You don\'t think of them as real people, it\'s almost as if you\'re all
too big to be real. Everyone calls your race \'psychotic\', but now I\'m
wondering if that perception just helped to mask actual problems Adrian
was having."

"I treated him like a protector," Jen said, a little absently. "Like my
knight in shining armour, so strong, so capable..."

She smiled involuntarily, a sad kind of smile. "A bit shy. He didn\'t
like to talk about himself. That really should have been a red flag."

Trycrur nodded silently, and remained there as though she sensed there
would be more.

"I wondered if he might have problems early on, you know," Jen
continued. "He was a soldier, after all, and when I met him he was so
fierce, he could go from friendly to cold in half a heartbeat. It took
ages for him to mellow around me... to open up at all. Now that I think
about it, I wonder if we weren\'t just helping each other heal?"

"You seem less angry now," Trycrur observed.

Jen laughed bitterly, and balled a fist. "If I ever see him again..."

If.

⁂

**Zhadersil**

"What do you think?" Chir asked as they returned to the Zhadersil. "Now
that we\'re safely back here?"

"The same thing I said to Jen," Trycrur replied. "But I also think that
if we don\'t get Adrian back, this ship is not going anywhere."

"I\'ve already got two ships out on patrol to try and find any trace of
him," Chir replied. "I don\'t want to commit too many resources to this
when he\'s likely to just turn up again by himself."

"I don\'t know, Chir," Trycrur said with clear concern. "I think
there\'s something really wrong with Adrian. I don\'t know when or if
we\'ll see him again, and if we can\'t find him we can\'t help him. Not
that I\'d have any idea where to start."

Chir thought over that for a moment. "I\'ll commit a third ship."

"I hope they find something," Trycrur said. "If they don\'t we\'re in a
real bind."

"How are your weapons coming along, by the way," Chir asked, changing
the subject. "The explosives are okay?"

"They\'re fine, thank you," Trycrur told him, "although I am now well
underway with the process to become my own mining company. Hooray."

"Then the weapons..."

"Are currently being built by some people I trust not to screw up,"
Trycrur told him. "The Zhadersil will be fully armed in a few short
(days)."

"A piece of good news amongst all the bad," Chir said, glad to hear
something pleasant for once. "Now if only we could attract a real crew
for this thing and get the repairs complete in a reasonable time, I
could start being happy again."

"What about our doctor?" Trycrur asked. "It\'s not every day you meet a
Corti who admits to working for the Directorate before demanding a place
on your crew."

"He did well enough," Chir admitted. "I even let him explain his
reasoning."

"Oh?" Trycrur asked, overflowing with curiosity.

"He was intending to speak to Adrian," Chir said, pausing for long
enough to make Trycrur wonder if that was the entire reason. "He thought
that if he revealed his affiliations right away, Adrian would not be
inclined to kill him, and if he did choose to let him on board would
also be aware of that information to avoid sharing in the Doctor\'s
presence."

"So the Doctor was attempting to be the worst spy in the galaxy?"
Trycrur asked, clearly baffled. "That makes no sense."

"It makes more sense if you understand he had no choice in the matter,"
Chir told her. "He will be happiest if we keep him out of the loop on
anything not relating to medical care."

"So you think we can... trust him?" Trycrur ventured.

Chir laughed. "We can trust him to be untrustworthy in a very specific
way. And at least when it comes to him we won\'t need to worry about who
he\'s really working for. We\'ll already know."

⁂

**Shopping Trolley, vicinity of Zhadersil**

It was quiet aboard the Hunter vessel, aside from the gentle hum of
power that turned a bunch of parts into a starship. That hum seemed like
the breath of life that gave each vessel its character, its own
personality. The Shopping Trolley\'s hum was ever so slightly more
significant on the port side than its starboard, and not for any reason
Adrian had been able to ascertain.

He\'d been listening to that hum for hours now. Sitting in what was
otherwise silence aboard the cloaked Hunter ship. Here he was cursed
with only his own company. Here he was able to think.

Part of him was starting to think how that gun of his would taste.

He caught those thoughts, though; froze them in his mind and set them
aside. They were familiar, evil things in a mind built for the unmaking
of things, but they only appeared when he\'d really fucked up something
big.

The rest of him, the larger part that was less suicidal than it was
homicidal, was considering his next course of action. He had, in effect,
just run away from home with no idea what he was doing or where he was
going. All he had known was that he hadn\'t wanted to be around for what
happened when Jen woke up.

There were conversations that would be had, and he didn\'t think he was
going to improve things by being any kind of part of them.

He did have to go somewhere, though. It was clear that he could not just
stay here, indefinitely floating around the Zhadersil and the orbital
factory. He had considered going to Affrag, but he knew that if there
was any place they\'d go looking for him it was there. They were already
looking for him.

Why were they already looking for him? They must know that he didn\'t
want to be found right now. Was there a problem? Did they need his help
with something?

Had something happened to Jen?

That last thought troubled him more than all of the rest of them. That
would be guilt piled upon guilt, should something happen to her because
he had fled. Maybe that was why he hadn\'t gone anywhere else? Because
he couldn\'t just leave Jen again?

"Fuck," he groaned, slumping forward in his chair with his head in his
hands. "I\'m really fucking hopeless, aren\'t I?"

Nothing responded to his self--rebuke, nothing was there to respond.

The gentle hum of the Hunter vessel continued unabated.

⁂

**Date Point 2 Years 3 Months After Vancouver**

Another ship had been lost in orbit of the cursed world. It had been a
mere scout, surveying what might be surveyed of the cursed world and its
surrounding star system. It had been expendable, but Alpha--of--Alphas
still seethed in fury as it learned the finer details of what had
occurred.

A missing Hunter vessel, belonging to one of the five broken broods, had
been detected, and the Alpha of Brood Procui had wisely been cautious in
the investigation it had committed.

Regardless of its caution, Alpha Procui had not survived the encounter.
Instead it had been shredded with shrapnel, along with all of its most
senior Brood members. The Procui vessel had been finished by a pair of
coilgun bolts that had punched holes in the hull and deprived the rest
of much--needed atmosphere.

It had been a very capable slaughter.

Alpha--of--Alphas knew... it *knew* it had been a human. *That* human.
The Cursed Human.

Alpha--of--Alphas chittered in crazed laughter, startling its
subordinates who knew nothing of its thoughts.

The other humans it had encountered, they were only predator by virtue
of their flesh. They had hidden themselves away from the Swarm of
Swarms. They had fought in desperation, they had died in desperation.

They had *tasted* of desperation, and Alpha--of--Alphas, who had reveled
in ecstasy upon its first taste of the rich, dense meat, could now taste
only their fear, their uselessness, their complete and utter *failure*
to truly threaten the Swarm.

Alpha--of--Alphas longed to taste the flesh of the Cursed Human. That
one *was* a predator in every sense of the word. That one carried death
with it on a scale that dwarfed any but the Alpha--of--Alphas itself.

That one would surely be delicious!

And now that the Alpha--of--Alphas had finished investigating the data
recovered from the Procui vessel, it knew exactly where the Cursed Human
would be.

Two hundred vessels would be enough, and one of them would belong to the
Alpha--of--Alphas.

The Alpha--of--Alphas broadcast: +\<jubilation; command\> *The Cursed
Human has been discovered! Ready the Swarm! It is time to taste Cursed
flesh! Meat to the Maw!!!*+

⁂

**Affrag**

Adrian scratched at his beard. It had been a long time since he\'d
shaved. It\'d been a long time since he\'d seen a mirror for that
matter. The Hunter vessel didn\'t have any, but he supposed if, like the
Hunters, you had a face like a bag of smashed crabs you didn\'t really
want to look at it.

He wondered if it still counted as living like a caveman if your cave
was air conditioned and filled with advanced alien technology? Probably
not, even if it *was* parked inside a cave.

Under cloak, of course. He didn\'t want to be found *that* easily, by
the Hunters or by anyone else. He wasn\'t sure, though, that he didn\'t
want to be found at all; he had come to Affrag after all, where he knew
they\'d be looking for him.

He really didn\'t know what he expected to happen if they ever found
him. Surely they\'d all be really pissed off? Not that he could blame
them for that.

The solitude *was* helping though, in its own way. There was nobody
making demands of him, no serious dangers to encounter on his excursions
out to get food or to simply be *outside*. Affrag was beautiful. Affrag
was calming.

Affrag was boring and lonely.

He\'d made his bed, though, and now he\'d have to sleep in it. He
couldn\'t imagine simply *going back* to the Zhadersil. The
recriminations that awaited him there... Jen awaited him there...

He couldn\'t face her. Boredom and loneliness were preferable to seeing
the accusation he knew she\'d have in her eyes. The sheer, fucking
reproach she\'d hold against the man she\'d trusted, and had broken that
trust.

It scared him shitless.

But, he wondered, how long could he go on living the Robinson Crusoe
lifestyle? How long before all his fuck ups caught up with him again?

How long before Affrag was made dangerous?

⁂

**Affrag, Sixty Five Million Years Ago**

Xagh turned the switch on the grenade, tossing it around the corner and
waiting for the satisfying explosion before he charged, Zheron Gun
spraying death against the invaders.

He was old; far older than a V\'Straki had any right to be, and frail
because of it, but Xagh still had the spark that made him a soldier and
right now that spark burned furiously. He hadn\'t felt so alive since
he\'d left the Zhadersil. Maybe not even since he\'d been leading
boarding parties.

If only it hadn\'t taken the destruction of the Affrag colony to bring
his blood to such fullness. The V\'Straki here had worked so hard,
pushed so far to reach that point where the future of their children was
not full of darkness, where their race had a destiny once again. That
future was gone now, destroyed as a final insult by the Igraen Alliance.
Their final genocide.

The invasion itself had come without notice, ten thousand new stars
hanging in the night sky and descending in thunder and flame. The stars
had been silent for so long -- for nine full decades -- and they had
begun to suspect that they were the last bastion of intelligent life
that remained in a war--blasted galaxy.

In a way they had been right; these *things* did not possess the true
intelligence of V\'Straki or even of the races of the Igraen Alliance.
They were weapons only, albeit ones still capable of fulfilling their
original purpose even after the Alliance was nothing more than dust.

The purpose of purging the galaxy of all V\'Straki. The mad Igraen
purpose of total genocide. Xagh hoped that these things were the last of
their kind as he was of his; he did not like to think of succeeding here
today only to have been defeated on the greater stage. Today saw the end
of the V\'Straki and all their works, it was poetic that it should see
the end of all that remained of the Alliance as well.

He roared as he pressed forward, sweeping the wide firing arc of his
Zheron gun across each group he came across. The gun was a legacy of his
time aboard the Zhadersil, and on its current setting was a wide--arc
deck--sweeper. Today it was sweeping these kin--breeders aside like a
damned broom!

With thirty of the creatures dead before they could respond, Xagh paused
to catch his breath and to admire his handiwork. The Zheron gun was an
older model, lacking the cooling bolts built into the newer types that
the Zhadersil had never been provisioned with, and a rest gave the
weapon a chance to cool off. A fain plume of plasma lifted from the
barrel when he pointed it skyward, a visual effect he had always enjoyed
and would have missed were it gone.

"Kothri," he grunted as he picked over the creatures. They were a race
of sub--sentient insects that had been enhanced with cybernetics to the
point that they were now more than sixty percent robotics. That left
thirty or forty percent as weak flesh, and while Xagh was no scientist
he could still tell that the flesh that remained was crucial.

He flexed his elderly body as he waited, not wanting to let the joints
grow stiff once the rush had left them. "I\'m getting too damned old for
this," he complained to his gun, "and so are you... why couldn\'t these
guys have come thirty (years) ago? What else did they have going on?"

He sighed. They had probably been busy building all of those ships in
orbit, a full army to slaughter a bunch of colonists and a few old
soldiers. By now the others must have fled, and maybe they\'d gotten
away -- he hadn\'t heard any screams in a while, now -- but the most
likely situation was that he was the last V\'Straki left in the whole
universe.

Didn\'t that just make him special?

"Let me tell you kin--breeders something," he growled to the dead
creatures. "There\'s no doubt you\'ve killed my kind, but you have *not*
beaten us. I\'m going to make you *burn*, and that\'s a promise!"

There was, Xagh was well aware, a single and intentional point of
failure in a Kothri swarm, built in by the Igraen to ensure that if
their creations turned against them they would have the killswitch. They
were not a hive mind, that would have allowed each member of their swarm
to contribute to its intelligence, but rather a vast number of drones
controlled by a single entity, the over--mind, and unless something had
changed there was no method for the over--mind to divide its force. If
the swarm was here in numbers, and if they were working with the
strategy that they were, then the over--mind was here as well.

The door to the room he was resting in burst open under the weight of a
group of them, and by pure instinct Xagh threw himself behind the
barricade the dead Kothri had been busily constructing. Their eyes had
long since been replaced with metal components to provide
high--definition night vision. The cybernetics glowed a deep, bloody red
that also served to intimidate, but more usefully it let him pick out
their number even when they were in full shadow.

His gun was still cooling off, and although Xagh hadn\'t used it so much
since well before he\'d made Shiplord, he\'d still be counting down
subconsciously. They were swarming the room, and there was still a full
(minute) left to go.

He slipped out another grenade, one of the last few that the Zhadersil
had had remaining in its armory when they had left. This one was painted
bright yellow; not intended to be used in small spaces like a colonial
hall. He turned the dial and put his hands over his hearing canals;
today was a day to live dangerously.

One (minute) later he was walking out through that same door like a hero
from the propaganda stories, giving the few who remained outside a last
goodnight from the Zheron gun. That was a damn sight more fight than
they\'d been looking to have, and it was over for them before they could
recompose their strategy.

There was one more failure that over--minds were prone to having. They
were singular, but their attention was divided and had to be focused on
the locations of most need. You hit hard, you hit fast, and you hit them
where they weren\'t expecting it, and then when they were distracted you
hit them where it *really* hurt.

Xagh entered the hangar at last, finding it empty for the moment, save
for the last of the landing crafts he had to visit. The others ships
were all ready.

Everything was ready.

Now it was time for fireworks.

⁂

**Zhadersil, Present Day**

Jennifer Delaney. Mid--twenties, still looking good, still rather pissed
off, and still stuck in space. Homesick, too, but it turned out that was
just another thing that she couldn\'t get to.

Although at least she knew where *that* one was now. Not that it really
helped when a bunch of xenophobic aliens had stuck a big cage around the
whole solar system and called it a day.

You might have thought that that was the sort of thing that Adrian would
have told her about, but then you would have thought wrong.

"Well," she said, unhappily after Trycrur had filled her in on all the
details, "at least his stupid ship is heavily armed now, so even if we
can\'t really use it properly, we\'ll at least be safer than anywhere
else we might be."

Trycrur had agreed with that assessment at least. "Missiles on every
rack, and more besides. Additional coil guns harvested from the extra
Hunter vessels have been mounted on the hull, but will need to be
controlled from the Endless Sequence until I can get them to properly
integrate with the Zhadersil."

"That\'s the problem with old software," Jen replied. "Lots of
dependencies that may simply no longer exist."

"I\'m sure it\'s possible," Trycrur said, "but with everything else
going on..."

"With everything else going on, it\'s been at the bottom of your very
long list," Jen finished. "Nobody can blame you for that, Trix. Without
you, the Zhadersil wouldn\'t be half as ridiculously dangerous as it is
now."

"You and... well, you know, are as much to thank for that as I am,"
Trycrur told her, omitting the name that caused Jen so much tension, but
not realising that a simple omission didn\'t help when you lived in a
place where reminders existed in every corner. "Your human ideas are
what I put my skill to building."

"I\'m just telling you what we have on Earth, Trix," Jen said. "I\'m not
some kind of military genius. I\'m just a girl in I.T. who makes poor
life decisions."

"We all make poor life decisions, Jen," Trycrur reassured her. "That\'s
why we\'re all here and not somewhere else enjoying fabulous wealth."

That was not as reassuring as Trycrur might have hoped it would be, but
at least it made Jen laugh. In the time since Adrian had left, she\'d
become better friends with both Trycrur and Chir. She\'d even taken
charge of organising various operations that Chir and his expanding
group were to embark on, spreading the name of \'Zhadersil\' throughout
Celzi--controlled space, and liaised with Doctor Grznk -- or \'Doctor
Grizzles\' as she\'d come to call the cantankerous Corti, much to his
chagrin -- over anything he might need to run the medical section.

Grizzles was alright as Corti went, maintaining a ridiculous level of
honesty about what he was reporting to the Directorate and when he was
doing so. He even made special efforts to remain unaware of things that
were going on so that he could carry out his orders to the letter but no
further. He\'d also been the one responsible for treating her
Adrian--sustained injuries after she\'d returned to the Zhadersil.

Jen waved goodbye to Trycrur and proceeded back towards the Endless
Sequence. It was a more comfortable vessel, in her opinion, and she\'d
taken up residence there after discovering just how much more
comfortable it was. It beat the pants off of the old, outdated dinosaur
sleeping quarters that Adrian had preferred, and it was also on board an
actual, fully--functional starship, so if she ever needed to abandon the
Zhadersil for whatever reason she already had a really good way to do
it.

"Jen!" Chir called out, striding across the flight deck towards here. It
looked as though he had just come back in from one of his frequent
visits to the orbital factory. The Zhadersil was far too large to fit in
any of its regular docks, so special efforts had been made to rebuild
the damaged sections. That still meant that if they ever needed to get
to the station, they needed to use one of the smaller ships to make the
quick journey.

Jen turned to face him quickly. It looked as though he had something
important to say, and for the last month \'something important\' had
seemed like it could only ever be one thing. "Chir," she greeted him,
"what is it?!"

"Word from the orbital station," he said, and she could tell right away
that whatever news it was was bad. "A message from the Hunters was
intercepted. The Swarm of Swarms has a new target."

Jen went cold. She\'d spent the last few weeks catching up on all the
misery that Adrian had apparently been shielding her from, and the
details of the Swarm of Swarms was chief among them. Thousands of ships,
all descending on a location at once; there was nothing in the galaxy
that could stop it once it arrived.

"What is it?" she asked. "Are they coming here?"

"They\'ve made the orbital factory aware of their demands," Chir said.
"They\'ve made the whole Dominion aware of their demands. They know that
Adrian was here. They want the \'Cursed Human\' or they intend to take
the whole of the station with him."

"But we don\'t have any idea where he is," Jen protested, although
protesting that to Chir would be of no help. "All these people are going
to die because Adrian ran away?"

"All of them," Chir said, "including *us* if we don\'t get out of here.
An evacuation is already being planned, and they want to fill the
Zhadersil with refugees."

Jen nodded. "Of course we\'ll--"

"They won\'t allow you to come with us," Chir interrupted. "They don\'t
want a human anywhere near them when the Great Hunt arrives. They think
they\'re better off leaving you here, Jen."

"What do you think, Chir?" Jen asked him, deeply unsettled at the
prospect. "What do your men think?"

"We will not allow you to be ejected into space, or left for devouring,
Jen," Chir replied fiercely. "You should not need to ask us such a
question! Not ever!"

"Ach, I don\'t want to be left behind," Jen said, "but I can\'t run away
with the Zhadersil and leave so many of those people behind. Not when we
could be saving them. How many are there?"

"Around fifteen thousand," Chir replied. "we have room for a very decent
fraction of that figure, and other vessels in the vicinity or in dock
may render limited assistance. It is possible to fully evacuate."

"But they won\'t let me stay," Jen said. "If that\'s the case, I will
have to go. I can take the wee vessel you brought..."

"I will go with you," Chir immediately volunteered.

Jen shook her head. "I can fly it, I\'ve been practicing, and you\'ll be
more useful if you\'re here."

Chir sighed, and to Jen it seemed as though a great weight had fallen on
him. "Very well," he said. "I will begin making the arrangements."

⁂

**Shopping Trolley, Affrag**

Adrian went over the coordinates that had come through for the Great
Hunt a second time. He knew he hadn\'t screwed it up the first time, but
the cold dread that result had provided him with made it worth a second
check.

Same again, the coordinates for Irbzrk, the coordinates for the
Zhadersil. The Swarm of Swarms was headed for them and it was heading
there for *him*.

But only human it could possibly find *there* was Jen. Did they know the
Swarm was coming? Was there anything they could even do about it if they
were? Communities who were holding a human had taken to ejecting them
into space rather than risk the ire of the Hunters.

"No..." he said weakly. Then he grew angrier, and more determined. "Fuck
no!"

There was no way he could just sit here on his useless arse and wait for
*that* to happen. It didn\'t matter if it was just one Hunter ship or if
it was a million, he would not abandon Jen, and he would not abandon his
friends to them. If he had made this mess then it was his to solve.

No matter what that might mean.

He began to initiate the startup sequence; it hadn\'t taken him much
time to decide that he was going back, it had hardly been worth a
question at all. What he tried to figure out as he prepped for launch
was how the fuck he was going to survive this one.

Objective one: Stop or divert the swarm. Objective two: Make sure Jen
and the guys survive. Objective three: Stay alive.

That basic outline may have given his own life third place, but it was
only marginally surprising to him that he\'d still mentally added it.
Despite everything, he wanted to live, to get away and thumb his nose at
the Hunters one more time.

"That\'s going to take one serious fucking magic plan," he said, sealing
the airlock.

He engaged engines and began the process of guiding the ship from the
cave that had housed it. "Hope I\'ve got enough time to come up with
it."

⁂

**Zhadersil**

The ship had never been so busy, at least not as long as Jen had ever
been on it. Transports were coming and going almost every five minutes,
bringing small numbers of refugees aboard each time.

It was almost time for the Swarm of Swarms to arrive, and that meant
that it was almost time for her to go.

She headed towards the shuttle slowly, taking in the sights of the ship
she\'d made her home over the last few months for what was certain to be
the last time. Part of her would miss it, and part of her was relieved
to be going. Leaving this place meant she could get over Adrian.

All she had to do was figure out where would take her in. It was a big
galaxy, that was true enough, but the Hunters were everywhere and nobody
was looking to give shelter to someone they didn\'t know who\'d bring a
whole awful mess to their door.

"Jen," Trycrur called out as Jen crossed the flight deck. "Wait a
moment."

Jen waited impatiently as Trycrur hurried over to meet her. "Trix," she
said, "I have to go."

"I know you do," Trycrur replied forcefully, "but that doesn\'t mean we
have to agree with it."

"This wasn\'t your idea," Jen told her, "I know that!"

"*We\'ve* had a slight change of heart, though," Trycrur continued. "It
doesn\'t sit well with us to let you go off on your own. We\'ve prepared
a Hunter vessel for you instead. You\'ll need the extra room, because
we\'re all coming with you."

Jen frowned in frustration. "You can\'t do that!" she objected.
"Somebody needs to look after these--"

"We can do what we want!" Trycrur replied sharply. "What we want is to
look after our friend! These cowards can fend for themselves! I\'ve
shown them something of how to operate the Zhadersil."

"You shouldn\'t be doing this," Jen continued. "I\'m not worth--"

"This is not open for discussion," Trycrur interrupted firmly. "Now, get
the \'fucking\' ship so we can get out of here!"

Silenced, Jen did as she was told, boarding the indicated vessel to find
the whole crew of the Zhadersil present, including Doctor Grizzles. The
fact that he had opted to join them provided her with warm comfort as
she took her seat under the approving gaze of the crewmen.

"All accounted for," Trix informed Chir, who now occupied the helm
console. "Let\'s get out of here, and see where this thing takes us."

"I know a little colony where we can hide away at least until this is
all over," Chir said. "They\'ll take us in for a while, but we\'ll have
to move on before long. They might be willing to hide a human for a
while, but that only goes so far."

"Chir\'s little colony it is, then," Trycrur said, speaking as much for
the benefit of Jen and the rest of the crew as for herself.

Chir engaged the engines and the warm hum of the ship increased as it
lifted from the flight deck and started forward. "Taking us out. Wave
goodbye to he Zhadersil, everybody. There\'s every chance we won\'t be
seeing it again."

Jen watched through the viewport as the flight deck disappeared, then
the great hulk of the Zhadersil\'s ancient hull as it diminished into
the blackness.

And then they were gone.

She touched the viewport with her fingertips, staring out into the inky
blackness where the Zhadersil had just been.

"Adrian," she whispered, too low for anyone else to hear. Water welled
in her eyes, but she was done with crying now. There was just one thing
left to say.

"Goodbye."

⁂

**Zhadersil**

Director Ifrg looked at the scanning results with mounting terror each
time they came back negative. It was nearly time to go, almost all of
the refugees were aboard, but the Swarm of Swarms was due to arrive any
moment, in spite of their widely broadcast claim that the human in
question had moved on ages ago.

Ifrg almost relieved himself by accident when the communicator console
lit up, and he snatched at it once he had composed himself, expecting to
see the features of Crqlvk telling him that the last transport was
leaving from the orbital station now. That was the only other source for
transmissions in the Irbzrk system, after all.

He almost relieved himself again when the screen failed to show
Crqlvk\'s face and instead showed the features of the human so reviled
by the Hunters.

He was in the system! He was right where they\'d said he wouldn\'t be,
and they were almost here!

Ifrg\'s heart was swimming in terror, beating so hard he thought it may
burst from his chest. "Y--you!"

"You\'re on my ship," the human replied, a grim determination on his
face. "I need you off that, pronto. Let me talk to Jen."

"The other human isn\'t here!" Ifrg told him, glad of the fact. Maybe if
he was just after the human he\'d go away. "She left with the rest of
the crew."

"That\'d make you pirates, then?" the human asked, no humour in his
tone. "Trying to take my ship from me? I\'m coming aboard to take it
back. My advice is: get off."

Ifrg eyed the warp controls. It might be a dirty thing to do, but he
thought abandoning the last few refugees to the Swarm along with this
awful human creature was a lot better than letting it kick them all off
of the ship and dooming them all.

He let his fingers creep over to it while he continued to stare at the
view screen so the human wouldn\'t suspect.

He pushed the button, and nothing happened.

His face must have betrayed his shock because the human laughed a harsh,
grating laugh, devoid of joy and filled with bitterness, and when it was
over the human seemed no happier for the effort.

"My ship follows my commands, fuckface," the human said. "No warp for
you. Off. Now. I won\'t ask again."

Ifrg froze. "Please..." he begged, resorting the that final humiliating
tactic. "Please don\'t make us leave! They\'ll kill us all! You will
have the blood of ten thousand people on your hands!"

"Listen to me," the human said coolly. "I\'m taking back my ship and
when I\'ve got it you\'re not going to want to be there."

"What..." Ifrg began, "what are you going to do?"

"Let me explain it to you," the human said, one lip curling back in what
Ifrg thought might have been a human smile, although he didn\'t see he
friendliness that supposedly went with it.

Then the human began speaking and Ifrg understood its intent. It had a
plan, a mad and desperate plan, but it was better than the plan that
Ifrg had had, and as it continued its explanation Ifrg could see how
their plan had been doomed to failure, how the Hunters had not been
interested in the *station* at all.

The Hunters were interested in the Zhadersil, and so long as traveled
the Hunters would follow. The refugees would never be safe while they
made that cursed ship their home.

"Why are you doing this?" Ifrg asked, when he was done listening. "We
forced your friends from your ship. Why not abandon us to their Hunt?"

"Objectives one and two," the human replied cryptically, not going on to
elaborate. "Now you better fucking hurry, because they\'ll be here soon,
and when they get here you don\'t want to be anywhere near that ship."

⁂

**Hunter Vessel, warp path outbound from Irbzrk**

A light switched on on the communications console, a notification being
sent to all Hunter vessels. A rare event, outside of the announcements
from Alpha--of--Alphas.

Trycrur noticed it and frowned. "Someone has sent a Swarm--wide
message," she said. "Should I bring it up?"

"Better," Chir grunted, "never know what bad news they might have for
us."

Trycrur nodded, expecting that much as an answer. She activated the
notice and began to read. "Attention Fuckwit Swarm..."

She stopped, sharing a meaningful glance with Chir. There was only one
human they knew with the gall to send something like that out. She read
on.

"Attention Fuckwit Swarm. Cursed Human now at following set of
coordinates. Bring it."

They were silent for a time, a heavy air of tension filling the space
between them. They traded glances at each other, as well as at the
sleeping form of Jen sprawled out in the passenger seat behind them.

"It\'s got to be from *him*," Trycrur said. "But what can he be
thinking?"

"I think that\'s pretty clear," Chir replied. "He\'s trying to draw them
off of the orbital factory."

"Do you think he\'s actually at those coordinates, though?" she asked.

Chir contemplated that for a few moments before answering. "I think he
would have to be, if he wanted his plan to work. Otherwise the Swarm
would simply turn back to targeting the orbital factory."

"Do you think it will work?" Trycrur asked. "His plan?"

"It\'s awful like always," Chir said, "but this time there\'s a much
bigger force against him. I don\'t think he can live through this one,
Trycrur. I\'m sorry."

Trycrur nodded, sad but accepting that that would be the way of things.
Adrian likely knew this would be the case, and yet he was going into the
situation regardless, it was not for her to say otherwise. "Should we
tell her?"

Chir shook his head, there wasn\'t any need to mention names on that
particular question, they both knew exactly who Trycrur was talking
about. "Best if you don\'t. I think she\'s finally getting past all of
that."

"You\'re probably right," Trycrur said. "I just feel bad about keeping
it a secret."

"Then maybe we will tell her when some more time has passed," Chir said
reluctantly. "Maybe."

That it would have to wait was something that Trycrur naturally agreed
upon; there was nothing to be gained in waiting for more information
before doing so, and if she knew she\'d be there with Chir and herself,
anxiously awaiting the next update. It would be better if Jen was not
forced to go through that.

"I\'ll keep an eye out for more notifications," Trycrur said, reclining
back into her seat once again. "If any."

⁂

**Zhadersil, Deep Space**

Adrian was waiting, but he had not been waiting quietly. As soon as he
had gotten aboard the vessel he had started getting them shipped back to
the orbital factory on every ship he had available, cramming them in
well past their normal occupancy.

They\'d taken most of his ships in the process, leaving him with just
the Endless Sequence and the Hunter vessel that was now sealed into the
hull.

He didn\'t need them, though. If he couldn\'t get through today without
them, he wasn\'t going to get through today. He\'d put his energy into
preparing a warm welcome for the Hunters instead, knowing all the while
that their sheer numbers would overwhelm his meager defenses if nothing
else.

"Zhadersil," he said, "record message."

The computer beeped its readiness.

"This is Adrian Saunders, most recent Shiplord of the Zhadersil. If I
don\'t make it through today, I\'m hoping that at least someone will
manage to recover my message. God knows if I don\'t fucking make it,
there\'s every chance the old girl won\'t either..."

He paused, sighing. "I want to apologise," he said. "to everyone I hurt
through my stupidity. I hope this plan works, I\'d certainly like it to.
I hope everyone who deserves to live gets to live, but I\'m not sure if
that includes me... so if *you* get this Jen, sorry for what I did, and
sorry I wasn\'t brave enough to come apologise in person. Looks like I
missed the boat on that one."

The sensors began issuing their notifications that he had company in
local space, a constant string of \'ding\' noises tied so closely
together than they were almost a buzz.

"Seems company has arrived. Time to get to work. Saunders out."

⁂

**The Swarm of Swarms, vicinity of Zhadersil**

The Alpha of Brood Krintis prepared itself for the oncoming battle,
knowing that there would *be* a battle from the history associated with
the Cursed Human. It was aware that there may be great losses today, and
normally it may have exercised caution in the face of such an obvious
trap, but the Alpha--of--Alphas was also here, and today caution would
be a very dangerous tactic to play.

The Swarm had dropped into space surrounding the alien vessel, a larger
vessel than Alpha Krintis had ever seen outside of a space station. It
was fully powered, protected by some strange energy shield that
disrupted their scans, but visual sweeps showed the entrance to the
flight deck was wide open. Something must have come before them as well,
from the look of the debris field that littered the area around it, or
perhaps it had put that there on purpose to prevent too many Hunter
vessels from getting too close at the same time?

But that open flight deck showed that the Cursed Human was taunting
them! It expected them to simply flow through into that area and destroy
themselves in whatever trap it had laid...

Alpha Krintis paused at that thought. Perhaps it was merely made to
*look* that way, and the Cursed Human expected them to avoid such an
obvious trap? The Cursed Human had cunning, there was no doubt of that,
and such a tactic would not be beyond it. Alpha Krintis wavered in
indecision, and that moment probably saved its life.

The Swarm of Swarms was pushing towards the alien vessel, relying on
inertia and minor course corrections to carry them into close proximity.
From there they would initiate boarding in the standard method, but on a
scale never seen against a single vessel before. It seemed clear that
the Cursed Human was *waiting* for them to invade, and Alpha Krintis was
happy to oblige.

It didn\'t notice the alien ship was powering up its FTL, and unlike
every other vessel in the area, it didn\'t begin to power its own to
give chase.

It didn\'t provide anything for the debris field to lock onto.

Almost as soon as FTL had been initiated, what Alpha Krintis had taken
as nothing more than scrap came to life, each piece driving themselves
at a separate vessel, attaching to the section of hull harboring the
FTL, and blow a large hole in it.

The force of the explosions shut down two hundred ships, and the debris
blasted from their hulls damaged at least twice that number, given their
close formation.

The Alpha--of--Alphas\' vessel had been amongst those shut down by the
tactic, and Alpha Krintis clicked in fear at what the Alpha--of--Alphas
may order. It didn\'t imagine that the Alpha--of--Alphas may be dead,
the concept was inconceivable.

Then the alien ship shifted to warp space, making its destination
coordinates clear with a farewell message. A destination barely (one
minute) away by FTL.

It was right not to think about it; the Alpha--of--Alphas broadcast out
to all active vessels to give chase. The Swarm of Swarms would not be
humiliated in this fashion -- the Alpha--of--Alphas would not be
humiliated in this fashion -- they would bring death to the Cursed Human
and never let this incident become known.

The vast majority of their fleet was still active, and they engaged FTL
to follow.

They left warp space in the vicinity of a dull red dwarf, its light
still enough to show the silhouette of the alien vessel. There were no
worlds in the tiny system, and this time Alpha Krintis was careful to
scan for any technological debris that might be laying in wait, as it
expected all the other Broods were doing also.

There were none, and the flight deck still lay open. The Cursed Human
was adept at infuriating the Swarm, even if it turned out to be little
else. This time they pressed in more warily, scanning the system for any
unwanted surprises but never finding any.

Then without warning more of the cylindrical pieces of debris burst from
concealed holes on the alien ship\'s hull, fanning out across the Swarm
and impacting with precision -- even upon those vessels that should have
been cloaked! -- detonating with even more force than those previously,
but without targeting the FTL section specifically.

There was also no evading the strange weapons; from what Alpha Krintis
could see, all evasive maneuvers were met with a change of course, and
soon the red dwarf was outshone by three hundred Brood vessels pluming
hot jets of plasma into space.

It was doubtful that those vessels would be joining the fight, or any
fight again for that matter, but at least this time the alien vessel was
not powering its FTL.

It was waiting for them.

With the Alpha--of--Alphas absent, adrift in the void at the previous
rendezvous, Alpha Krintis decided follow his cautious side and allow
others first privilege of boarding.

⁂

**Zhadersil**

The Swarm of Swarms was still coming. Two hundred vessels had been
destroyed or disabled at the previous warp point, with many others
damaged in the process. Those mines Trycrur had constructed had worked
fantastically, operating entirely like the ones on TV or in the movies.
Utterly fucking terrifying.

Three hundred more vessels burned in the inky blackness immediately out
there, spewing their atmosphere and occupants into the void of local
space.

They still came.

There were five hundred or so vessels still remaining, the Hunter vessel
he had sealed inside the hull had provided him with an accurate count of
that, regardless of how many were cloaked. They had still needed to
communicate their positions to each other, to avoid collisions, and all
of that information was flowing across all Hunter vessels. It seemed a
considerable oversight on their part.

It had let him target cloaked vessels as well.

They were boarding now, through the flight deck, far from the
Zhadersil\'s Command Deck. No more missiles to let fly, but the coil
guns someone had installed were busily targeting the Hunter assault pods
that pushed towards them, punching holes through them and destroying
their contents.

This was the fucking Normandy invasion in space. A total meatgrinder on
a level he\'d never seen before, and suspected the Hunters had not
either.

Some *were* making it to the flight deck, however, and there they were
being met with the not--inconsiderable resisting force of the Endless
Sequences\' limited weapons, the robot that spat pipe bombs, and of
course the two flame--thrower tanks.

"The smell down there must be fucking unreal right now," he said to
himself, looking on through one of the hover cams he\'d set up for
surveillance. The rest were on patrol throughout the Zhadersil, keyed to
advise him of any other breaches.

He found himself tapping he arm of his chair uncomfortably as he
watched. The Swarm *was* slowly making progress on their attack. He was
sure that they couldn\'t *all* be so stupid that they\'d run through the
meatgrinder he\'d set up, either.

That meant it was only a matter of time before he initiated Plan B, and
Plan B today really sucked. He guessed he might well not be achieving
Objective Three today after all.

"Well," he said bitterly, "two out of three isn\'t so fucking bad, I
guess."

He put on his Vacuum Suit and began the long walk towards the Cargo Bay.

"Zhadersil," he said, "engage Dark Star protocol."

The Zhadersil beeped. "Warning, Dark Star protocol will irreparably
damage reactor. Proceed?"

"Proceed."

⁂

**Zhadersil, Sixty Five Million Years Ago**

Xagh\'s plan to board the Zhadersil had worked at least as well as he
had hoped. Using the other craft as distractions, turning them into
weapons that rammed major invasion vessels, had provided his with the
distraction it needed to reach his old starship.

His sense of nostalgia was limited by the fact that the flight deck was
full of Kothri, and he employed the craft\'s weapons to clear himself a
space to land.

"Zhadersil," he said, "do you read me? This is Shiplord Xagh."

The Zhadersil responded immediately. "Welcome Shiplord Xagh. Hostile
forces have been detected."

"Understood," Xagh said. "Are all hostiles within range of the Dark Star
protocol?"

"Affirmative."

"Then, old friend, please engage the Dark Star protocol."

"Warning, Dark Star protocol will irreparably damage reactor. Proceed?"

Xagh nodded, staring out of the craft at the incoming Kothri forces. He
swept a final firing arc across them, knowing it was basically
pointless. There\'d be no escaping the Dark Star protocol, not even for
him. It was so dangerous, so feared as a tactic that it needed a
registered Shiplord on board to activate. It was the ultimate Skrek--You
to whatever was left outside, or in.

"Proceed."

⁂

**Zhadersil, Present Day**

Alpha Krintis had not boarded by the traditional manner. That particular
route, through the bloodbath on the flight deck, had not seemed
particularly wise, and by the time any of the others had noticed its
tactic, Alpha Krintis had already been on board with a group of its
handpicked elite.

A flying bomb had taken two of them out nearly immediately after
boarding.

This was a Hunt unlike any that Alpha Krintis had ever been in before,
the ultimate Hunt. The Hunt of something that really could fight back,
and this day would be one remembered throughout the annals of the
Brood\'s history.

Alpha Krintis was determined that it would be remembered along with it,
and that it should taste the flesh of the Cursed Human. Judging from
this, it had to be *magnificent*.

Now came the task of actually finding the Cursed Human. Not an easy
task, not unless you used your wits. While others would simply swarm the
ship, Alpha Krintis would prove its cunning. Alpha Krintis would turn
the ships sensors against itself.

The Cursed Human had been able to contact the Swarm. It had been able to
target the cloaked ships. It had to be using the Brood\'s own systems to
do it and that meant it could be found.

Alpha Krintis began the process of accessing that stolen system. Brood
vessels shared their access completely, seeing no need to protect their
systems from each other. Disagreements between broods were settled in a
straightforward manner, and no such deception was ever required. Here
that vulnerability proved useful, and once Alpha Krintis had determined
which vessel it needed to connect to, it was in control of its sensors
within moments.

The Cursed Human was still connected, albeit remotely, and that allowed
Alpha Krintis to pinpoint its position.

+\<excitement; eagerness; statement\> *The Cursed Human is not far! It
moves towards the Cargo Section! Pursue! Pursue!!*

Soon they would meet the most dangerous of humans. Soon they would taste
its meat, a fare that Alpha Krintis had thus far been denied.

It would be denied no longer. +\<hunger; need\> *MEAT TO THE MAW*+

⁂

**Zhadersil, fifty metres from Cargo Bay**

Running down corridors in a Vacuum suit was hard work, and Adrian found
himself sweating profusely. He had more than enough time if he hurried
-- the Dark Star protocol took time to prime -- but that didn\'t mean he
wanted to waste any. The Vacuum suit was insurance against the sudden
loss of atmosphere that was already occurring in outer sections where
the hull was being breached, and he wasn\'t willing to give it up
regardless of how badly it reduced his vision and hearing.

That, the heat and the chafing were all part of its charm.

He was therefore taken by surprise when a powerful kinetic round struck
him in the side as he ran past a side corridor, knocking him against the
opposite wall and sending him tumbling to the floor with a sharp pain in
his chest that made him suspect two or three ribs had cracked.

He forced himself to heave in a breath, struggling against the sharp
pain in his side that wanted to push it back out. He rolled over with
his kinetic gun drawn as the first of the Hunters rounded the corner.

Its face collapsed in a mess of blood and gore as old instincts over,
and the small disc it had been intending to launch at Adrian rebounded
from the wall instead.

The fact that the Hunters dove out of the way told him enough about what
it had been if the subsequent blinding pain wasn\'t informative enough.
It was like being kicked in the face by jackboots and he wasn\'t
anywhere near where it had landed.

The Hunters were also in pain, but the sheer agony of it allowed most of
them to get behind cover before he could pulverize them with repeated
kinetic blasts.

"No time for this," he growled, groaning as he forced himself back to
his feet. He pushed himself forward, holding his side tightly. There
wasn\'t that much time left!

⁂

Alpha Krintis forced itself to recover from the disastrous nerve jam
mishap that appeared to have disabled its weaker underlings. The Cursed
Human was dangerous enough without it being lucky, and the nerve jam
grenade had only ricocheted back towards the Brood because it had fell
forward after being hit with the anti--tank blast rather than being
splattered against the wall like any reasonable species.

It wasn\'t so lucky that it had got away cleanly this time though; Alpha
Krintis had seen the way it was limping when it had fled.

Was it scared? That would be normal but the Cursed Human was an
aberration. It may be a trap, or on its way to spring one. That would be
more like the creature Alpha Krintis knew it was hunting.

Alpha Krintis proceeded with caution, following the Cursed Human at a
distance to make sure it could take advantage of its next moment of
weakness.

It had reached the Cargo Bay at last and was in the process of opening
the door. An alarm was sounding throughout the ship now, some kind of
countdown to who knew what. The Cursed Human was in a frenzied hurry
though and Alpha Krintis knew that it couldn\'t be good.

Alpha Krintis understood that the time for hesitation was over. Whatever
the Cursed Human intended, only Alpha Krintis could stop it. Now was its
moment, and Alpha Krintis seized it.

Alpha Krintis sunk its teeth of the Cursed Human\'s fleshy shoulder,
revelling in the agony it had caused, momentarily overcome by the wonder
of the rich, dense meat. That hint of sentience that was the greatest of
spices, given new flavour from the un--preylike mind.

It was overcome for long enough to earn a punch to the face that sent it
barrelling backwards, slamming it half senseless against the floor and
wall.

Through the haze of pain, Alpha Krintis still revelled in the flavours
awash in its maw. It waited for the Cursed Human to finish the job. It
waited and was disappointed.

The Cursed Human was gone.

All that was left was the countdown.

Alpha Krintis waited to see what would happen. What masterful trap the
Cursed Human would spring this time.

The countdown ended and the lights went out, along with the gravity.
Distant howl and rush of wind told Alpha Krintis that the atmosphere was
being vented as well.

It was disappointed. Was this the great trap? If the Cursed Human had
thought to deprive the swarm of air it would soon find that many of
those who had boarded had done so prepared for such an event.

Alpha Krintis snarled in disgust, it had expected more from the creature
that had had such flavour! It--

Alpha Krintis paused, realising its flesh was tingling. It scratched at
its side experimentally, chittering in horror as the flesh came away.

The tingling turned to fire as the flesh began to slough away, and Alpha
Krintis screamed.

⁂

**Alpha--of--Alphas main vessel, vicinity of Zhadersil**

The Alpha--of--Alphas surveyed the ruins of the assault fleet in
seething fury. Of the vessels that had been sent to hunt down the Cursed
Human nearly three--quarters were adrift, massively irradiated
tombstones marking the folly of Broods that lacked the intelligence to
escape when their enemy had begun showing signs of an incredible energy
build up. The number of ships lost in that way would make a significant
difference to the size of the Swarm of Swarms, but it was nothing that
could not be rebuilt, given time.

At the center of the catastrophic enterprise was the great alien ship,
equally irradiated if not more so. Any attempt to board that vessel
would earn a lethal dose within moments, and by the time it could be
scrubbed clean the Cursed Human\'s meat -- if any still remained --
would be ruined.

That the Cursed Human had died was cold comfort in the face of such
losses. That it had died untasted was the greatest injustice. Any
creature that had inflicted such losses upon the Swarm of Swarms would
have been beyond delicious.

This sort of victory was not the kind that cemented its position as
Alpha--of--Alphas. This sort of victory was too dangerous to leave be.
The Alpha--of--Alphas had formed a plan, however, to ensure that even in
the face of *this* outcome, there would be no doubt as to its
leadership.

The Alpha--of--Alphas began its broadcast. +\<pride; statement\> *Today
we are rid of a creature that has plagued us. The greatest of its kind,
felled only in brutal conflict, it preferred to give its own life than
to allow us its meat. That was its fear.*+

It allowed a brief, dramatic pause for emphasis on its coming words.
+\<satisfaction; statement\> *But even deprived of its meat, it has not
been without its gifts. New tactics were displayed, and they are now
known to the Brood. It will not be again, as it was today. Next time,
resistance will be crushed! Next time the meat will be ours! Next time
there will be a feast!*+

The message went out, from Brood to Brood, spreading out through the
Swarm until all knew of the great victory that had come at such cost.

With the Cursed Human dead, there was no human remaining who might stand
against them. There was *nothing* that would stand in the way of the
Great Hunt.

+\<exaltation; statement\> *MEAT TO THE MAW!!!*+


