# S - The Rabbit Hole
***Salvage***

---

**DATE POINT: 4Y 2M 1W 3D AV**

**ABOARD SPOT, INSIDE THE FAKE--ZHADERSIL DEBRIS FIELD**

**ADRIAN SAUNDERS**

"Well, that was some serious bullshit right there," said Adrian as the
comm--link terminated, wondering just how it was that everything kept
landing buttered--side down. It was a very human trait to gift wild
events with personalities of their own---with everything being blamed on
the gods, there was no doubt that this had been the basis for a
multitude of religions---but as an engineer, Adrian preferred to view
his world as an incredibly complex web of cause and effect, no different
from a staggeringly complicated machine, but sometimes he did wonder
whether he really had attracted the interest of some puckish deity.
Looking back at his life over the last two years, the truth was hard to
believe at face value, but that was why he was broadly known as the
Human Disaster.

"You mean the 'now you belong to me' part?" Trix asked, replaying the
recording of Adrian as he'd said it, making him wince at just how
disgustingly clich√© he'd sounded. "If so, then I agree."

"I might have overdone it a bit," he admitted, grimacing with personal
embarrassment. He waved a hand dismissively towards the viewscreen,
which currently showed only the wretched remains of the gargantuan
starship, still glowing white--hot and sparking with long arcs of
purple--blue lightning. "As is completely fucking obvious! Fuck me
dead!"

"I'll pass on that offer," she replied, and the image of the wreck
vanished to make way for eight major console windows that showed the
state of everything that mattered on their own ship. Highlighted was the
perfectly functional state of the sensors, and the fact that they
weren't picking up much of anything outside the ship itself. That was
more than a little unusual, and it didn't point to good things. "I think
we have bigger problems. Normally I'd say that the high energy levels of
the wreckage were disrupting the sensors, but even then we should be
getting something. This is different, and I don't know how it's
happening. Right now we're entirely limited to the electromagnetic
spectrum."

Adrian stared at the information being displayed on the screens,
drumming the side of his helmet in lieu of stroking his fingers through
his hair or beard. His gaze was turned inward, however, as he attempted
to sort through a million or so hours of V'Straki false--memory implants
for information he could actually use. These were the remains of the
original Zhadersil, first dumped into his subconscious when he'd first
assumed the Shiplord's chair, and had been guiding his hand ever since.
They were not intended to be remembered---only to speed more
conventional learning techniques---but just like everything else, the
process was not designed for a human with a head full of space--meth and
alien mutant juice. The memories had been surfacing in his dreams, and
his brain had been busy filling in all the gaps until they became a
vaguely coherent sort of mess, but it still felt like remembering the
events of another life or even a very poorly written novel; hopefully
this development wasn't going to make him any crazier than he already
was.

"Clever move, by the way," Trix continued. "I'd never have imagined we
could protect the ship from a warpfield breakdown with a stasis field.
That... is what happened there?"

"Something like that, I think," Adrian agreed, completely dishonestly,
although the truth was not an option. Nobody wanted to hear him talking
about 'false vacuum metastability events'---even less if they actually
understood what they were---and it was much better if they didn't know
where he'd gotten the idea for it. Finally he stumbled across the
information he needed, and his eyes flicked over to the results provided
by the quantum sensors. "Positronic charge is at forty--five," he noted,
knowing that it was normally at thirty; it'd be a bad idea to be in the
area if it hit eighty. "How's our kinetic drive looking?"

Trix replied with some hesitation. "Fine... why do you ask? And what was
that about positrons?"

"I think we need to strongly consider getting the fuck out of here as
soon as fucking possible," he told her without explanation. The
positronic charge count was not something many people generally paid
attention to, and it wasn't the problem in itself, but it was a sign
they were on a road that didn't lead any place nice. False--vacuum
metastability was the basis of the creation engine, and the accompanying
lessons came with no shortage of dire warnings, but Adrian had intended
to keep the warp field wafer--thin so that only the flight deck would be
destroyed, but the evidence suggested something had gone very badly
wrong. Quantum space was always going to be disrupted by the event, but
unfortunately the scale of the problem scaled exponentially, and because
the quantum sensors didn't work it was impossible to say how far the
effect had spread.

"Surely you're not intending to just leave this thing here so it can
come back a third time?" Trix rebuked. "We already have enough recurring
villains in our lives, Adrian! We should finish the job!"

Adrian chewed on his lip, not liking the situation any more than Trix
did, but the decision had been made for them. "We don't have time."

That much he was certain about; the little pocket of undamaged
space--time they were sitting in wouldn't last forever, and they'd be
proper fucked if they weren't already moving when it fell apart. "I need
you to get us out of here. Accelerate as hard as you can in the nearest
safe direc---"

"Sorry," she interrupted, "but I've just detected the Devastator through
the optics. I think they just dropped from a stasis field."

Bad news after bad news, but this was more or less what Adrian had
expected. "What's their situation?"

"They're gaining distance from our position," Trix reported. "I could
attempt contact by laser?"

Adrian shook his head. "That'll take too fucking long... can you just
send a message? We don't need a conversation."

There was an audible beep. "Recording now."

That was a little quicker than he'd been expecting, and left Adrian
scrambling to consider what it was he should actually say. "Shit...
uh... this is Adrian. You've spent four months or so in stasis. Keep
going in that direction and do *not* change course. Warp out when you
can and do not try to return. End message."

"Message sent," Trix replied. "What exactly is going on, Adrian?"

"I'll have to save the explanation," he told her as he took a seat in
the most comfortable chair available and made sure his vacuum suit was
still sealed in all the right ways. "It's a long story, and we need to
get moving. Can we reach the space covered by that stasis field?"

"It means going through a cloud of super--charged iron particles, which
may destroy us," she explained, although the tone of her voice didn't
suggest the chances of destruction were very low.

"What if we fire coil--bolts through it?" he asked. "Maybe that'd clear
the way for us?"

She paused briefly. "That's... *somewhat* less suicidal."

He nodded decisively. "Then that's what we'll do. Once it's done, I need
you to accelerate as hard as possible, then you'll need to do the same
when we hit that patch of space. You know what that means?"

Trix was horrified. "It means you'll be exposed to nearly one--hundred
times your normal gravity, Adrian! It will crush you!"

"Yeah, but... probably not to death," he replied, trying to keep things
a little realistic. "I'll just black out for a while, and feel really
fucking shitty when I wake back up. We're also going to lose all quantum
tech for a bit---kinetics, reactors, and computing... it'll all be
down---but hopefully you'll be up again in time to push through the next
patch. Got it?"

"I've got it," she said, "but I'm not happy about it."

"Neither am I," he said with a grimace, already imagining how it was
going to make him feel. "I'll see you on the other side."

Hinging, of course, on the hope that there was actually another side to
this glorious cluster--fuck, and he hadn't produced a slowly spreading
wave of quantum ruin across the entire universe. He was feeling
optimistic, though.

"See you there," she replied, and for the briefest moment Adrian felt as
though his every molecule was being crushed in a vice--like grip, and
just generally forced to become one with the chair. That was only for a
moment, however, because one struggling heartbeat later the world had
gone dark.

---

**ABOARD THE DEVASTATOR**

**CHIR**

The message had been unexpected, alarming, and simple enough to only be
played once. They didn't need to verify it---it was hard to forget
Adrian's Australian drawl---but the image of the little ship in the
glowing embers of a colossus was all the additional evidence that they
needed.

Chir had turned to face Jen, glaring daggers. "\[Four months!?" he
growled. "That's where trusting that abomination gets us! We might have
been trapped in there indefinitely! As it is, we're---"

"Saved---once again---by Adrian Saunders," Darragh finished resentfully,
and Chir found himself agreeing with the sentiment. It was shameful to
be so easily subdued by an enemy that they'd had no idea it'd even
happened, and it was even more shameful to be repeatedly rescued by the
same man who should have been dead a dozen times over. Chir knew that
they were all reasonably competent at what they did, at what they'd
actually trained for, but playing at space--pirates had not prepared
them to deal with the kinds of things they now found themselves coming
up against. Hunter swarms? Duplicates of loved--ones? Ancient alien
conspiracies? Impossibly powerful warships? The rapid succession of
these events had left Chir feeling like he was in some story that only
grew more ridiculous as the storyteller went on. Normal people didn't
have to deal with this quantity of... of... of *bullshit*.

"Once again," he echoed through gritted teeth.

Jen held her hands up with both palms open in the human gesture for
peace, taking a step back as she did so. "Look," she said, "I'm as
pissed off about this as you are, but we all knew this was a risky plan,
and well... we're all alive."

"Pissed off?" Keffa asked, glaring at Jen. "Why would *you* be pissed
off after finding out your boyfriend is alive and well!?"

Jen inhaled sharply. "He's *not*... look, we never..."

Everybody, including Chir, rolled their eyes. "I am no expert on
humans," he said, "nor am I stupid, but I'm beginning to think I'm---"

He was interrupted by the room suddenly plunging into absolute darkness
and the utter failure of the artificial gravity. In spite of floating
away, Chir experienced the sinking feeling that usually occurred
whenever things were going from bad to worse. "What... what's
happened?!" he demanded. "Anyone?"

"It's dark, and there's no fucking gravity," Keffa reported unhelpfully.
"Consoles are off as well."

"Mine too!" Darragh muttered. "It's all off... everything is fecking
off! Arseways as usual!"

With one hand gripping it for purchase, Chir tapped at his own console,
feeling at the buttons in the dark, but there was no response from the
unit. There wasn't even a hint of activity, and with the exception of
the four of them the ship seemed as silent as a tomb. "This is very
bad."

There was a click from nearby, then twice more. "Getting worse," Jen
reported. "My fusion blade isn't firing up. No idea what that means, but
I think it means we're in trouble again."

"Jesus fucking Christ," Darragh grizzled. "This can't be fecking
happening! I refuse to be rescued by Adrian Saunders twice in the same
day! Let's get this fixed without him!"

More clicks from Chir's other side. "Kinetic pistols don't work either,"
Keffa reported. "Whatever happened, I'm guessing that it's drained all
the power from everything. It does leave us without weapons."

Chir snorted in amusement. "Without weapons? We have four deathworlders
aboard, and you'll recall that I'm not as soft as my fur makes me look."

There were some brief chuckles of agreement in the darkness, and the
heavy mood seemed to lighten somewhat. Chir knew that was for the best,
it'd be too hard to work together if everyone was focused on the doom
that now gripped them, and that'd be enough to turn a possibility into
an inevitability.

"You're right about that much," Jen admitted, "but I suggest we all go
down to the engineering room and see what Xayn and Askit are up to. Even
if we're all together to make sure we work as a coordinated group."

"Of course..." Keffa complained in sudden realisation. "The god damned
intercom won't be working either!"

Chir tested it, discovering that it did indeed fail to function. "I
think your idea is for the best, Jen," he told her, "and I don't think
we have much choice in the matter. We need to find Layla, though... I
won't have her wandering around alone in the darkness."

"Let's stop fucking around then," Keffa suggested, now over where the
command deck connected to the adjoining corridor, "and get this done.
There's a door here, and it's fucking--well closed. Can I have a hand in
opening it up?"

Chir gently shoved off from his chair, drifting in the general direction
of where he remembered the door being, and braced himself for an impact
against the opposing wall. He bumped into it with some force, but
managed to grip a handhold with a furious scratching of claws before he
bounced too far in the other direction. "Where are you Keffa?"

"Over here!" she replied from only a few strides away. "Do you remember
how to open these things without power?"

Chir picked his way over to her with care, one searching hand sliding
around the wall as he tried to find what he was after. "I remember that
there's a panel around here with a manual release behind it."

His claws finally tapped onto something that seemed a likely candidate,
and he slipped one claw into the catch and let the panel pop open.
"Found it... I think," he said, groping around inside until he found a
mechanism. Pulling it, he was rewarded with a metallic clunk. "Try it
now."

"Got it!" Keffa declared with triumph as she forced the door open with
little resistance. Whatever they were hoping would be on the other side,
however, it was just as dark as the command deck. "Looks like the rest
of the ship is in darkness as well."

"Glow in the dark paint would fix that right up," Darragh suggested from
nearby. "Back home they'd have these strips that would glow in the dark,
so you didn't stumble around in the dark on your way to take a piss in
the middle of the night. My old dad had a strip around the door to the
jacks."

"Hindsight is twenty--twenty," Jen replied, although Chir had no idea
what 'jacks' were nor of the significance of that particular number. As
usual, he decided it wasn't important enough to try and figure out when
their lives were on the line, and kept his attention where it belonged.

"Quick question," Keffa asked, interrupting the irrelevance, "who can
remember how to get to engineering with their eyes closed?"

"I should be able to manage it," Jen said, but without the confidence
that Chir would have liked to hear. "At least I think I can."

He considered his own memory of the corridors, and wondered if it would
be good enough to get him where he needed to go. "If we work together,
we should be able to manage it. First we find Layla, though."

"She's over in the far side of the residentials!" Darragh pointed out.
"And she'll be stuck safe--and--sound in her little room!"

Chir ran his tongue across his incisors, not liking the prospect of
leaving Layla imprisoned in darkness and ignorance, but it was difficult
to justify going to find her when time may be of the essence in
engineering. "Fine... I don't like it, but your point is made. We'll
head directly to engineering."

That proved far more easily said than done, and conversation began to
dwindle as the number of backtracks increased. It was in sullen silence
that they finally reached the door to engineering, and when they opened
it they were greeted by a dim red glow that broke the eternal dark.

"Light!" Keffa gasped, and would have said more had Jen not clapped a
hand over her mouth.

"Thank you," Chir whispered. "I don't see our people, so I will go and
investigate quietly before we all rush forward into what could be a
trap."

"What if it *is* a trap?" Darragh asked, his face now visible as a
shadowy outline. "Do we have a plan?"

"The plan is 'I have three humans to back me up'," Chir replied with a
human--like shrug. There was ultimately no way to formulate anything
more than that, given everything they didn't know, and he'd have to
trust that they'd manage to do something without messing it up. "Jen,
you're in charge of rescuing me if it all goes wrong."

She nodded without speaking.

Chir ventured forward towards the light, sparing a glance over his
shoulder to ensure that they weren't following him after all. They were
loyal friends, most of the time, but they were habitually terrible at
just doing what they were told. This time, however, they seemed to have
fallen back into the darkness of the corridor, and he couldn't see a
trace of them.

Satisfied, be closed the distance to the source of the light, circling
one of the silent support structures that usually managed the power
emitted by the reactors, and discovered it to be a small glowing disc of
unknown origin. It sat beside an access panel that had been slid open,
but he saw nothing but darkness within its depths.

"Ah, you're finally here," said a voice from the darkness, startling
Chir enough to send him scrambling into a zero--gee fumble. Only after a
moment did he realise the voice belonged to Askit, albeit through the
external interface of a vacuum suit, and the Corti hacker drifted into
the circle of dim lighting with one arm outstretched to help haul Chir
back to the floor.

Chir took the proffered hand without a word, and allowed himself to be
dragged back to safety. "Thank you."

Turning back towards the darkness of the corridor, he called out to
summon the others. "It's only Askit here."

Askit scowled. "'Only Askit'? I've been busy securing all the vacuum
suits in the engineering area for your use. What took you so long?"

"We were..." Chir began, and tried to think of an explanation that
didn't include the words 'getting lost', "delayed. How is the vacuum
suit working?"

The Corti grimaced. "For the most part it isn't, but it does have
functioning life support."

"Why do we need vacuum suits?" Darragh asked as he drifted into the
gloomy circle. "Is there some sort of atmospheric leak?"

"Maybe somewhere," Askit replied, throwing a suit in Darragh's
direction. "But as I've said, they have working *life support*, which
seems to be something in short supply on this ship right now."

Chir bobbed his head in agreement. He could have sworn that the ship was
already beginning to cool, although that might have simply been his
imagination, but it was enough to convince him that they should all get
into them immediately and he gave a quick order to Jen and Keffa to
follow suit while he had a quiet word with Askit to the side.

"I take it Xayn went in there?" he asked, pointing towards the open
panel with a pair of claws. "What's in there?"

"Reactors run themselves, but it's the rest of this stuff that allows
the ship to use all the power," Askit replied, "which I happen to know
you're already aware of."

Chir glared at him. "That doesn't answer my question."

"He went looking for the control unit in there," Askit explained in
further detail. "I don't know what he expected to do with it, but he
took the other light disc with him. It's a V'Straki design, if you were
wondering."

"I'd guessed," said Chir, looking down at the circular light and
studying it as though staring would offer up secrets. "How does it
remain lit?"

"It's chemically powered," the Corti replied, and picked the light up.
"You just need to click it, and it powers up again."

He demonstrated the concept by clicking the button a half--dozen times,
doubling the luminescence the disc provided. "Don't ask me why an
advanced species would bother with such a basic device, but I'm glad he
had it with him."

"So no idea what's actually going on, then?" Chir queried. "None of our
other technology seems to be functioning at all."

"Except for our implants," Askit reminded him, "which run on our
internal biochemical energy, but more than that I can't say. We were
actually hoping you'd be able to answer those questions. No pressure,
since only our lives depend on it."

Chir growled. "Does Xayn think he can get it back online?"

Askit shook his head. "Not at all, but he's checking on it anyway. I
recall we were about to engage the Faster--Than--Light drive---which
poured out a whole lot of navigation errors---then everything went dark.
Maybe you could shed some light on that, since I've already helped shed
some light on everything else?"

Irritatingly, Keffa answered on Chir's behalf as she finished putting on
the vacuum suit. "We received a message from Adrian. Test of radio?"

"Radio working," Chir grumbled in reply, and turned back to face Askit
who stared at him expectantly. "He told us to get out of here. It seems
he managed to destroy the enemy starship as well, so at least that's two
major problems dealt with and we didn't even have to do anything."

"He also mentioned that we'd been frozen in stasis for four months,"
Keffa added as she assisted the others in getting into their own suits.
"The A.I. outsmarted Jen completely."

"Try not to sound so happy about it," said Jen. "I mean, it wasn't as
though we could have all died, or ended up in the distant future, was
it? Oh, wait... it *was*? Shit, we could have all been well and truly
fucked!"

Keffa coughed awkwardly, almost done helping Darragh get into his suit
and putting him in the awkward position of being directly between them.
"Look, I'm sorry---"

"No," Jen said firmly, "that's enough from you! We've all made mistakes,
and fine... that was one of mine! And since we can count our lucky stars
that Adrian managed to get us out of that one, maybe we can be a little
less shitty about him always having to save us?"

Askit spared a glance at the trio who'd now fallen into an awkward
silence. "I see the humans are getting along as well as they usually
do."

Chir bobbed his head in understanding. "Even *better* than usual, I
think."

"So Adrian survived," Askit continued, although with an attitude that
suggested he was talking to himself. "And somehow managed to save us
again, using only the few things we left aboard Spot."

The Corti didn't need words to make his point; Chir gritted his teeth in
annoyance, bobbing his head in agreement. "Again, yes. I suspect we'll
only have to wait to hear his story."

"He also said to warp out as soon as we could," Darragh added, his suit
finally sealed. "Test radio."

"Radio working," Chir replied in unison with Askit, who smiled in
amusement. "That's why we came down here as quickly as possible."

Askit nodded, turning his gaze to the open panel. "I don't think we'll
be 'warping' anywhere any time soon."

"It can't be soon enough for me," Darragh replied. "Chir, you should get
into a suit as well. Just in case."

"Agreed," said Chir, taking his own suit from the top of the pile Askit
had assembled, and noting that there was still one more remaining. Maybe
it was Xayn's, and the V'Straki had simply gone into the access tunnels
without one, but it might have been for Layla, in which case the Corti
had a marginally more thoughtful side than Chir initially believed.
Either way, it served to remind him that Layla was still locked away
somewhere, and that he'd been happy to leave her there. That was
something he needed to rectify, now that he had the means. "Once I'm
ready," he said, "I want to go and---"

Lightning exploded from one wall, bathing the room in purple--blue light
and hard shadows as a crackling ribbon of pure light snaked its way
through the air and exited the room in an equally impressive display.
Chir released the breath he had been holding, and began struggling with
the vacuum suit in his hands.

"What the feck was that thing?!" Darragh shouted, both hands gripping at
his helmet as though he was trying to keep his brains from melting out.
"Did a purple laser--snake just blast through our ship, or is this suit
full of LSD?"

"That definitely happened," Keffa said, equally stunned but freaking out
much more subtly. "Anybody want to hazard a guess what it---"

Another blast erupted from the floor as another laser--snake sparked its
way up to the ceiling. Maybe it was the same one, of course, but Chir
had the feeling that would mean they were luckier than they actually
were. "I'd suggest we avoid getting hit by those."

"No shit!" Darragh shouted in reply. "They must have like a billion
volts!"

"It's the amps that'll kill you," Jen replied absently, scanning the
room with her eyes as though that could help, while Chir busied himself
with clambering into a vacuum suit in record time.

"Yes, I'm sure it has plenty of those as well!" Darragh countered. "I'd
sure love to know what these feckin' things are, though."

"Crazy purple space lightning," Jen summarised. "That's all we really
need to know right now."

"This only underscores the fact that---" Chir began, briefly interrupted
by the vessel suddenly lurching forward, bringing the ceiling around to
meet them in a slow, sweeping motion that at least provided them with
consistent gravity. The manoeuvre was more than any of them could
handle, however, and each of them landed heavily on the smooth metal
surface. "---that we really need to get this ship powered up again."

Lightning erupted from their midst, showering them with sparks as the
purple ribbon shot across the room in an arc. "As fast as we can!"

---

**ON THE HULL OF THE AMBER RADIANCE**

**LAPHOR METMIN**

"What in the void can this possibly be?!" Laphor wondered aloud as she
stared into the spiralling purple--blue glow due starboard of the Amber
Radiance's current course. She was standing on the exterior hull with
thirty of her crewmen---and Six--Skulls Zripob---tethered to hardpoints
so that they could manually release the catch--cables. Laphor knew she
ought to have been keeping an eye on the soldiers, but the anomaly was
as beautiful as it was terrifying, and she doubted there was anybody who
hadn't given it the same consideration. Turning to Zripob, she found his
own attention fixed squarely on the mission at hand, but Laphor couldn't
help but wonder if he was actually as confident as he seemed to be.
Surely even someone as unflinching as Six--Skulls would find cause for
concern in this bizarre situation? "Have you ever seen anything like
this before, Six--Skulls?" she asked over the open comm link running
between suits. They'd been lucky enough to discover that the suits could
maintain radios and life support only a short time after the ship had
powered down, but they'd been even luckier to set an intercept course as
well. Now they were running the suits as a network to provide them with
communication between various parts of the vessel, and protection
against sudden airloss or the steady cooling.

Zripob turned to look at her appraisingly with his intense, bulbous
eyes, and did not appear to think much of what he saw. "No," he said
after a long moment, "but this is clearly the work of the Human
Disaster."

"So you don't think this is because of the warship that exploded?" she
asked. From their perspective there'd been, in the first moment, an
enormous and terrifying warship, and in the second moment a husk of
glowing debris with a small hunter ship inside it. The fact that the
tiny vessel had turned around and fled at high speed suggested that all
was not right with the world, and Laphor would have liked to do the
same, but Zripob had swayed the crew against her once again and forced
her to salvage as much face as she could manage. She'd felt a small hint
of satisfaction when the ship had totally shut down, but that had been
brief and was quickly replaced with a growing dread that they weren't
going to make it out of this alive.

Zripob seemed to give this some consideration, but ultimately returned
to his former certainty. "If it is, then it's because the Human Disaster
blew it up. We can only hope that this is not another weapon like the
last one."

"Right," Laphor agreed, feeling sick at the very thought; the terror
she'd felt in that pocket of broken space--time was not something easily
forgotten, and she was certain she'd have nightmares for the rest of her
life, but even that place had not shut down all their technology. There
were hundreds of questions to be answered---possibly thousands---but
there was only one that really mattered in the current moment. "How long
until interception?"

"\[Two minutes\]," Zripob replied without looking at her. His gaze was
now fixed on a distant fleck of darkness moving against the purple--blue
backdrop. "The catch--cables are ready?"

Laphor knew they were, and so did Zripob, but she ran her eyes along the
soldiers arranged at intervals on the outer hull. They were clustered in
pairs, wherever there was a catch--cable spool. The catch--cables were
lengths of cable on a spool which were released in the hope of latching
onto a nearby vessel. Normally they were fully automated and worked with
kinetic clamps, but today it was up to the crew to make sure things went
off without a hitch. "Looks good."

As if making a liar of her, a ribbon of purple light erupting its way
from the inside of the ship, blasting straight through one of the
soldiers and flashing out into the void as he crumpled in a wave of
static. His companion staggered back, losing grip of the spool, and spun
away from the hull while furiously grabbing at his tether.

Laphor wasted no time in clambering across the handholds until she could
clamp herself to a nearby tether point, whereupon she began hauling the
hapless soldier in. "I've got him," she reported back to Zripob, "how
long do we have?"

"Countdown to release begins now," he replied, guiding her attention to
the looming shadow of the smaller ship. "Three, two---"

Laphor abandoned her efforts to pull the soldier in---he'd be fine on
the tether anyway---and grabbed at the spool--release as Zripob finished
his countdown.

"---one! Cast the lines!"

Laphor released the cable along with another fourteen, spinning it
feverishly to make sure it had enough length, and the line whipped out
like steel lightning. Odds were against the plan---usually you had
computers to deal with the complex calculations needed to do it
safely---but the ship lurched hard as seven of the fifteen cables caught
and drew the two ships closer together. Soldiers scattered, or tried to,
as the hunter ship pulled in too hard and hulls crushed together in an
impact that instantly crushed five soldiers and sent four more spinning
into the void without their tethers. The terror of the moment was all
that drowned out their terrified screams, as Laphor contended with
keeping her own footing. Air was blasting from both ships in powerful
jets, blasting crewmen caught in the damaged rooms into the void as she
ships began to spin as though locked in a slow but complicated dance.

"Now!" Zripob called out in triumph, springing up one of the taut
catch--cables without regard for his own tether, proving once again that
he was as crazy as he was lucky. "Charge while we have the element of
surprise!"

Laphor begrudgingly seconded the order, but was glad to see that her
remaining soldiers made their way up the lines with much more care than
their would--be commander. No doubt they were all equally haunted by the
screams of those recently lost.

"Go," Laphor commanded, busying herself in hauling in the hapless
soldier still flailing on his own tether. "I'll manage this, and
coordinate the second wave."

Zripob cackled, which was not a very pleasant noise, and pointed his
fusion blade forward towards the enemy airlock. The weapon didn't work
as intended, of course, but it still held a cutting edge that was
equally deadly in hard vacuum. "As you like, *Shipmaster* Metmin, but I
doubt we'll be needing them!"

Laphor reflected that she wouldn't have minded seeing Zripob spinning
off into the unforgiving void, but it seemed he was luckier of the two
of them. She finished hauling the soldier in---Comos she thought his
name was---and looked up at the hull of the enemy ship where soldiers
carefully crawled across the smooth surface. "Ship status?" she
requested. "Looks like we lost some atmosphere towards the front."

"We suffered some breaches," reported her technical personnel. "The
command deck is hard vacuum now, but it'd be a lot worse if we hadn't
been in vacuum suits."

"Understood," she replied, wondering where she'd get the time or credits
to fix this kind of damage. The job for Zripob was quickly beginning to
cost them more than they'd earn from it, which meant she'd need to
renegotiate when this was over; that really wasn't a prospect she
enjoyed. "How are we looking on wave two?"

The response outlined the situation that the impact had delayed them,
but that they would soon be ready to dispatch from their own airlock.
She gave the order to make haste, but it felt like she was just trying
to make herself feel better.

"Remember," Zripob was telling the soldiers under his lead, "we need
only stab him once, and he knows it. In spite of the evidence, he's no
fool; with so many of us he'll think twice before picking a fight."

That was his promise, anyway, which wasn't backed up by the evidence
eventuating a few moments later. The smaller vessel's airlock, which had
been closed up until now, burst open in a rush of atmosphere, carrying
with it a small biped in a vacuum suit, tethered to his ship by a
harness fashioned from what looked like power conduit. Even from where
she was standing, Laphor could see a variety of weapons had been
strapped to the suit---a fusion blade and some other simple
weapons---but it was a length of blackened metal that the Human Disaster
had selected for his weapon. She saw him look out at the purple glow in
a mix of wonder and fear before his focus fell on the soldiers crawling
across the surface of his ship like insects. Under normal circumstances,
Laphor would have worried for the safety of her crew, but it was clear
that their enemy had not yet realised that advanced technology did not
work in this place.

Her pity was short lived, abruptly ending when the length of metal
belched flame and a soldier's scream was cut short by the rush of
escaping air. The Human Disaster drifted backwards on each shot, and the
weapon continued to flash with fire as soldiers died on their tethers,
no cover to be found anywhere.

"He has a functional weapon!" Laphor shouted in warning to the second
wave, for she was certain that the first would be lost in its entirety.
At least that meant that Zripob was equally doomed, which was something
to be grateful for. She and Comos got to cover as the first wave fell
away, fleeing back to the catch cables as quickly as they could manage.
Only Zripob remained, and pressed forward with a snarl that carried
across the radio network. "Cowards! I will show you how to slay a
human!"

He flung his blade at the power conduit, managing to slice it
off--centre without cutting through it entirely, but it still began to
unravel immediately. In this situation the Human Disaster seemed unable
to do anything---he would be as doomed as any of Laphor's poor
crewmen---but a rapid succession of shots fired directly away from his
vessel sent him spinning back towards his ship where Zripob was waiting.

Laphor took her eyes away for a moment as she ushered the remains of the
first wave back into cover, trying not to listen to the bestial snarls
of Zripob as he went toe--to--toe with the deathworlder. They all heard
his final rush forward, his final snarl, both truncated by a small, wet
explosion. He was silent after that, and Laphor spared a glance towards
his last location where his corpse drifted along on its tether like a
ghoulish balloon.

For Laphor, it was almost a relief to see it. All she had to do now was
convince the Human Disaster that she wanted to put an end to
hostilities. Clicking through the different radio settings, she tested
one channel after another until she finally found one that accepted her
link request.

"Yeah, who the fuck is this?" came the instant demand, in a voice that
was deep and angry. It could be nobody but Adrian Saunders, but Laphor
still felt the need to double--check for herself.

"I am Shipmaster Laphor Metmin," she replied, ignoring the unsolicited
proposition; she'd heard that humans---and this one in particular---made
a habit of making such suggestions and references as part of their
regular communications, only underscoring how primal they really were.
"Is this Adrian Saunders, also known as the Human Disaster?"

There was a pause. "Some call me that, yeah. So, I take it you're
surrendering?"

Laphor assessed her situation, and agreed that it didn't look good, but
she wasn't quite prepared to completely give up just yet. "I don't need
to surrender," she replied, planning on the fly, "since you've just
killed the one who was employing us to chase you down."

"Mercenaries, then," the human inferred, sounding rather more amused
than Laphor liked. "I take it that means you're not getting paid for
this fight anymore, so it follows that you're either about to suggest an
'alliance of convenience', or you're looking to me as your new boss, or
maybe you just don't want me to murder my way through your entire
\[spawn--thrusting\] crew. Sound about right?"

"Yes," she replied. She had always known that the Human Disaster was no
incompetent, but it was slightly disconcerting to have her thinking
picked apart so quickly. Her species had a term for it, 'enk--thinking',
which was all that remained of a phrase describing how one could think
with the mind of another. Most members of the herd--thinking galaxy
could reason out how they'd act in a given situation, but a mere handful
of species could reckon the thoughts, feelings and choices of someone
else in that same situation. Since this was generally limited to the
more warlike species, it should have been no surprise that the humans
would share the trait, but it was still an unhappy discovery; it would
make things all the more difficult if she took a more underhanded
course. "Any of those sounds better than waiting to see whatever that
purple thing does next. I'm thinking that maybe you'd prefer to avoid
wasting time in your own escape as well? I know that if my ship was so
badly damaged---"

"Point taken, and I agree" he interrupted, notes of reluctant
resignation in his voice. "Will you be wanting what's left of this
\[faecal--delivering cloaca\] back? He's a bit fucked up."

---

"I believe I'll manage without his return," she replied, considering the
description apt but wondering whether she'd soon look back on recent
days with fondness. "It seems the legendary *Zripob* wasn't able to
follow through on his bold claims, and we mercenaries have little
interest in farewelling incompetent employers who'd lead us to our
doom."

As expected, the mention of the name surprised the human, who remained
mostly silent for several moments and Laphor could only hear a whispered
murmuring. It was clear that the Human Disaster hadn't known who he was
facing, but maybe the knowledge would prove to be a useful distraction
for a canny enk--thinker. When he spoke next it was no surprise that his
mood had changed. "You should know that the odds aren't good for either
of us. Old mate might have \[spawn--thrusted\] us both."

That sounded like an agreement to Laphor, which was the first step in
getting out of this situation in one piece. The next step was to
convince her crew to let bygones be bygones and work with the man, but
given it was Zripob who'd led them all into death's maw, it should prove
easy enough to convince them to direct their ire to the dead mercenary.
It also helped that, for all his personal influence in life, the
Chehnasho legend was no longer in a position to defend himself. Briefly
considering her choice of words, she clicked over to the internal radio
frequency to address her crew. "Crew of the Amber Radiance, this is your
Shipmaster speaking. Our employer, Six--Skulls Zripob is dead, slain by
the Human Disaster, who has in turn decided to work with us to get out
of the mess our former employer dropped us into. I do not pretend that
this is anything more than a useful partnership, but I expect that you
will refrain from rash actions until the danger has safely passed."

She clicked back to the Human Disaster without waiting for a response,
knowing that the crew would be angry and trusting them to wait until a
better time to vent that anger. Maybe they'd be in a position to kill
the Human Disaster at some point---an act that would make them
famous---but for the moment this was just the way it needed to be. "Your
vessel is badly damaged, Adrian Saunders. I suggest you have no choice
but to join your efforts to our own."

"You're not wrong," he replied thoughtfully. Then, with greater resolve,
set the course for what would happen next. "I'll be over in a moment."

"Should we cut your ship free?" she asked, looking at how the
catch--cables strained to hold the two vessels together. "It may be
easier to---"

"We're going to need the momentum," he interrupted, having vanished back
into the darkness of his own vessel. "But if the power comes back on,
then yeah... we should do that. It's not like *my* ship is ever gonna
fly straight again."

Laphor felt a hand land on her arm, and turned to face the soldier
responsible, finding it to be Comos. He tapped the side of his helmet to
indicate she should re--tune her comms.

"What is it?" she asked him upon doing so. "I hope you're not intending
to argue the decision?"

He looked conflicted for a moment, and it was plainly obvious that he
disagreed with the course of action, but tilted his head to the negative
after only a brief hesitation. "No, Shipmaster, and neither is anyone
else, but we did want to know what we should do if the Human Disaster
suddenly decides to turn against us."

"We have at least until the power is restored before there's even a
chance of that happening," she replied, aware that the whole ship was
listening into the conversation. "Once that happens... well, we'll need
to ensure we have the Irbzrkian electrical weapons on hand. We have them
for a *reason*."

Hopefully that would be enough to settle the more disgruntled elements
aboard the ship, which was something no mercenary ship ever had a
shortage of, but it was also a subtle reminder of how they might ready
themselves. In spite of their motivations, most of the mercenaries
Laphor had served with didn't like sudden changes in allegiances, and
they were all too keenly aware of how that made them look. Nobody would
hire a mercenary who'd shown their willingness to switch sides
mid--battle.

A rolling vibration was enough to catch her attention and turn it
towards the source: the Human Disaster had officially joined the vessel.
Now that he wasn't floating around on a tether, Laphor had a sense of
scale, and noted that the feared creature was considerably smaller than
most galactic species. Looking into his eyes, however, was enough to end
any thoughts of size being an advantage. He kept those eyes locked with
hers as he approached, working his way across the hull like he was built
for climbing---maybe he was, Laphor didn't know much about human
evolution---and it took all her nerve to remain in place while her
soldiers braced for aggression. What they thought they'd do against the
fire--blasting length of metal she had no idea, but if it managed to
stop them from fleeing in terror then she was willing to pay it no mind.
It was bizarre that, with the obvious intensification of the anomaly,
that they were more afraid of the creature in front of them, but maybe
it was simply because he was small enough for them to comprehend; the
purple glow probably couldn't rip you in half or beat you to death with
your own limbs.

"You're the Shipmaster, then," said the Human Disaster as he finished
closing the distance, and there was no sign he was talking to anyone
else. It wasn't a question, either, but a statement of complete
certainty. As if sensing her interest in how he could tell, given that
the vacuum suits offered no outward identifiers, he offered a brief
explanation. "You're the only one not \[faecally ejecting\] themselves."

A crude reference, Laphor thought, but it was strangely apt for a sense
of overwhelming terror. She also thought he gave her too much credit,
but it was good to know he couldn't enk--think in her completely. "Let's
get inside. I'll let the crew know we're boarding."

The group clambered into the open airlock door, and three of the
soldiers set about manually closing the door to the small chamber while
the others remained watchful for any unexpected movements from the Human
Disaster. Adrian Saunders, for his part, seemed to keep an eye on all of
them at the same time, while his hand remained ready on that deadly
length of metal, incessantly tapping a pair of fingers against it as a
subtle reminder of where things stood.

"Not many ships have hard walls in their airlocks," he observed as the
outer mechanisms were locked into place. "Most I've been on just rely on
kinetics."

Laphor reflected that this meant the unstoppable force of destruction
had been on relatively few military vessels. "Military ships are built
to remain viable even with extensive damage," she explained, referring
mainly to those she considered worth a damn. "This means mechanisms
against power failure. I take it you approve?"

"\[Spawn--thrust\] yeah, I approve!" he replied enthusiastically.
"Kinetics are fancy, but I prefer a solid wall of metal between me and
hard vacuum. Of course, it's even better to have both."

"Right," Laphor agreed, mainly glad that nobody else had died just yet,
and that the internal door was now beginning to open. The internal
mechanisms sent a slight vibration through the small chamber as the door
slowly rose.

"No air inside either?" Adrian Saunders queried, likewise eyeing the
growing gap. "Really not sure I've traded up, here."

Laphor glanced to him, then to the faces of the soldiers who were all
too distracted by the Human Disaster to pay any attention to anything
else. In micro--gravity the sudden rush of air should have been obvious
by its effects, but those were sorely lacking. That was the sign of a
major interior hull breach, which the crew should have reported
immediately, and suggested the Amber Radiance was suffered more damage
than outer hull cracking. Perhaps reading her tension, the Human
Disaster shifted his stance to a far readier one, and tensions in the
little compartment ratcheted up by several notches.

"Something else is \[spawn--thrusting\] wrong, isn't it?" he asked as
the gap continued to widen, although the words didn't carry as a
message. "Or is this some kind of \[unknown--animal faeces\] trap?"

If it was a trap, it wasn't of Laphor's design, and she suspected he
could read that in her if his enk--thinking was even half as good as she
thought it was. He was right that something was wrong, though, because
there was no longer a response on the internal channel that didn't come
from one of the soldiers in the airlock with her.

"What is it?" Comos asked, his eyes not leaving the Human Disaster. "Has
he done something to the rest of our crew somehow?"

"No," said Laphor, although she couldn't help but wonder for a moment
before discarding the suggestion; the Human Disaster was incredibly
dangerous to be around and to have as an enemy, but there was no
conceivable way he could have killed everyone else in the ship in such a
short time. "Something is definitely off, though, and I don't think it's
this maniac for once."

The door rose to the ceiling, revealing only a corridor filled only with
absolute darkness. Given that they had purposefully glued vials of
jerremsil algae---a bioluminescent material used in onboard food
production---to key locations along the corridor, that darkness was more
than a little unsettling, and it was obvious that the other soldiers
sensed it too.

The darkness fell away from the fire bursting from the long metal
weapon, which lit the umbral passageway with a rapid flashes of light
and revealed a sizable crowd of crewmen all armed with fusion weapons
and a singular expression of absolute hatred. That there was so many of
them was the only factor in their favour when weighed against the
terrible power of the human weapon, and they pushed forward even as
vacuum suits popped around them.

---

"Protect him!" Laphor ordered the other soldiers in airlock, quickly
wondering how strange it was that she was so recently trying to kill the
same person. What the rest of the crew were thinking she had no idea,
for they remained completely silent and advanced more like a wave of
insects than a trained military unit. Confusion slowed the response to
the command, as the handful of soldiers struggled to process the
situation, but the first few to act brought the rest of them into line.
The silent mob advanced, forcing their way past the floating corpses of
the dead, quickly reaching the airlock door to discover the narrow
doorway favoured the defenders. The Human Disaster's strange weapon went
silent after only a short period of rapid firing, and he had begun
loading small, strange cylinders into it while allowing others to
desperately hold the mob at bay. Two of them had died gasping for air,
pawing helplessly at punctures in their suits, before the weapon began
firing again, and at this distance Laphor could see how deadly it really
was; not only did it instantly kill whomever it hit, but it could also
carry through and tear a hole in the suit of a soldier behind it.
Corpses soon littered the opening, creating another barrier to protect
them from the horde, and eventually the attack subsided.

"Are they all dead?" Comos asked, not lowering his weapon. "Void!"

"I can't tell," Laphor replied, struggling to sight any movement in the
gloom that wasn't a drifting corpse. She shuddered as she realised that,
to enter the ship, she would need to push past the dead, all while
trying to ignore their accusing eyes. "Don't let your guard down."

The tap on her shoulder startled her, and she turned to see the Human
Disaster gesturing at the airlock door, and walk a pair of fingers
across his other hand before dropping them into the space between
another pair of fingers. Laphor quickly retuned her comms. "What?"

"Walking through that shit is going to get us all \[stabbed with a
makeshift knife\]," he said, nodding towards the corridor. "We can go
across the hull and drop inside through one of the big cracks."

It was a solid plan. Laphor wasn't completely certain that her
translator had properly converted 'shanked', but even the mangled
translation didn't sound enjoyable. "Good idea, and I don't see a better
way."

They didn't have much time; with urgent gestures, Laphor gained the
attention of two of her remaining soldiers, and tapped the door to
indicate they should open it. Knowing that any word could doom them, she
made a final gesture to command them into silence, and watched their
eyes until she was satisfied they understood.

The hatch was drawn open as quickly as the two of them could manage
while Laphor kept an eye on the rest of her loyalists to ensure they
didn't experience a sudden change of heart, and made sure they knew it
was time to pull back. To his credit, the human only joined them once he
was sure the handful of survivors had made it out safely, and slammed
the hatch shut behind them with the ease expected of a deathworlder.

With the light provided by the anomaly it was easier to guide her crew
in tuning their comms to the human's channel, joining them to her own
suit's network so that they could finally speak freely.

"What's going on, Shipmaster?" Comos demanded, the edge in his voice a
poor cover for his terror. "That sudden betrayal... and yet they didn't
say a word!"

"You can figure that out later," the Human Disaster interjected. "Right
now we need to take back your command, and the first step is to get us
to the computer core."

He spared a glance towards the anomaly, and the speed with which he
turned away carried a meaning of its own. Laphor had always considered
herself a decent enk--thinker, which was the attribute that had gotten
her the command in the first place, and she knew guilt when she saw it,
regardless of species. Zripob, for all his faults, must have been right
about the cause of the anomaly, although Laphor could not fathom how
such a thing was even possible.

"I think you need to tell us the truth before we do anything more,
human!" she replied with as much steel as she could muster. "You made
that purple thing, didn't you? What is it?"

He paused, scrutinising her, but Laphor stood her ground, and after a
long, blood--freezing moment he broke his gaze and looked towards the
anomaly. "\[Spawn--thrusting\] \[place of everlasting punishment\]... it
wasn't on purpose! I *think* it's some sort of 'uncontrolled
macro--wormhole event', but I \[spawn--thrusting\] *know* we're better
off not being anywhere near it when it hits the critical threshold."

Laphor shared a glance with Comos, who indicated he had no idea what the
Human Disaster was talking about---a situation not helped by the clearly
inadequate translator files---while Laphor knew only enough to reckon
that, once all this was over, she didn't want anything more to do with
Adrian Saunders for the rest of time. "Alright, then."

Once again, it was Adrian Saunders who led the way across the surface of
the hull, moving between latch--points as though his body was designed
for it, and with his help it was almost faster than moving through the
internal corridors. They arrived at one of the fractures in the hull in
short order, the edges lined with tearing claws of twisted metal; the
kind that only needed to touch a vacuum suit to rip it to shreds. Even
the Human Disaster couldn't help but view that gap with trepidation.

"What's in there?" he asked, staring into the gloom.

"We should be close to the command deck here," Comos replied, sharing a
worried glance with Laphor. It was *very* close to the command deck.

The Human Disaster turned back to look into the metal gash more
appraisingly. "Command deck might do the job just as well."

With greatest care, he avoided the wicked metal teeth, drifting slowly
into the gap until he landed in safety, and looped his tether over the
closest available fixing. "Safe enough in here."

Laphor nodded to her remaining crew, and they worked together to follow
the human's example, slowly joining him in the barely lit interior of a
room Laphor recognised all too well.

"Shipmaster," Comos said, recognising it as well. "This is your office!"

Laphor scowled at the ruin of the room where she had, until recently,
held absolute power aboard the starship. Mercenary vessels were not
democracies, but it was a foolish Shipmaster who'd risk the ire of her
crew by playing the autocrat; in this room, however, there had never
been any question about who was in charge. As a result of this it had
been filled with her personal effects, few of which would have survived
explosive decompression. "The command deck is nearby," she said, taking
the lead. "This way."

Having seen the state of her office, there was no question as to whether
the corridor would contain air, although hopefully the crew had
maintained the protocols against hull breaches in spite of their mutiny.
Laphor didn't want to think about what would happen to them if the ship
had vented it's *entire* atmosphere.

Finally they did have some luck, though: not only was the space empty of
traitors, it still contained the two vials of jerremsil that had been
stuck to the walls, and the quick retrieval of these provided them with
an ongoing source of illumination. Laphor passed one to Comos, while
keeping the other for herself, figuring that the human seemed better
equipped to see in the gloom than the rest of them.

"No sign of traitors," Comos muttered. "Yet."

"It's a big ship, and they don't have the luxury of sensors," Laphor
replied, but shared the sentiment that it was only a matter of time. "We
should get moving. The command deck is this way."

Little distance separated the office from the command deck, but the
nerve centre of the starship was kept away from the outer hull in case
of serious damage---as had happened today---and the corridor turned
sharply before they reached the entrance, which stood wide open as
though anticipating their arrival.

"This looks bad," said one of the soldiers at Laphor's back, and there
was a hushed murmur of agreement as they all stepped into the room. The
door had been closed when they'd left it, with strict protocols in place
that it should remain that way during a boarding action, but Laphor
found she was unsurprised that this was not the case. There was no
obvious damage to the room, but whatever had happened had left the door
open and three suitless corpses drifting around the empty space.

---

She heard the human murmur something to himself, but instead of
approaching the consoles as she'd expected, he moved towards one corpse,
then the second, and finally the third, roughly handling the first two
but never touching the last, that of the weapons technician who'd been
on the second shift rotation. "What in the void are you doing?" she
demanded, watching his hurried movements in confusion. "I thought you
said we didn't have much time?!"

He grimaced at the reminder, and shook his head. "This is... pretty
\[spawn--thrusting\] off. Can you lot usually survive in hard vacuum?"

"Nothing can survive in hard vacuum," Comos answered, his eyes falling
on the final floating corpse. "Can it?"

"No..." the human conceded, but paused for a moment as though
remembering something, "at least not for this long. I'm thinking
space--\[animated corpse\], or brain--controlling parasite, because
there is *definitely* something going on upstairs."

As though coming to some resolution, the human disaster drew a fusion
blade, and before anybody could object he had sliced away the top of the
dead technician's skull.

They might still have objected, if there'd been a brain and not a
thrashing, chitinous bug exposed by the cut, spurting bright white ichor
across the command deck as life fled it.

"I'm taking your silence as one big 'what the \[spawn--thrust\]'," said
Adrian Saunders. "Brain--replacing bugs... well, I was close."

Laphor stared at him, failing to comprehend the situation in any way
shape or form, despite the deathworlder's concise description. "Why
aren't you more... horrified?!"

He rolled his eyes in a gesture her translator informed her was disgust.
"Because this \[faecal matter\] is basically a \[spawn--thrusting\]
Tuesday for me, and my villain roster is already maxed out. Do I really
need to add these dumb \[spawn--thrusts\] to my \[spawn--thrusting\]
list? Jesus--\[spawn--thrusting\]--Christ!"

Laphor noticed she had drifted away from the living crewmembers, and
that they had done likewise until they stood watching each other with as
much wariness as they'd earlier shown the Human Disaster. "I didn't
notice anything wrong with Technician... Bengon."

"Yeah, well, my guess is he's '*Bengon*' for a while," the human
replied, making no sense whatsoever, but somehow finding enough black
humour in his words to bark out a short laugh. "Best if you all keep
your distance, since I doubt he was the only one, and it's hard to pick
through a vacuum suit."

Laphor guessed that this meant he had some kind of 'heat sensitive
vision', since she couldn't see how else the differences might be
detected through what she had observed. That was not something she'd
heard humans were capable of, but it was hardly a surprise given their
nature; a predator must find it very helpful to see the hot blood of the
prey.

"Take up position near the door," she ordered the soldiers, who moved
only reluctantly. "Comos, keep an eye on them and me. I will likewise
observe you and them, so that nobody may be taken by surprise."

"What about Adrian Saunders?" Comos asked, uncaring that the human could
hear him. Laphor spared a glance towards the Human Disaster, who had
started to break open a console, and received an amused smile in reply.

"Somehow he's the least of my concerns right now," Laphor replied, and
wondered how such a thing was even possible. Not long ago she was
engaged in a political battle for the loyalty of her crew, and now she
was somehow fighting for survival on a dying ship, surrounded by
brain--replacing creatures, while trying to escape cosmic annihilation.
The day had really taken a turn for the worse.

"*How* are you not bothered by this?" she demanded of the Human
Disaster; the translator had failed to adequately translate 'Tuesday'.

"Not long ago I was fighting against an entire Hunter Swarm, then
risking everything to take down the same ship that destroyed a full half
of that swarm, while having next to no hope of actually making it out
alive," he replied, not looking up from where he was working. "This is
actually a slight improvement."

He stood up, clapping his hands together in a gesture that indicated he
was finished and satisfied with his work. "All done."

"Now what?" Laphor asked, glancing sidelong at her remaining crew.

"Now we wait," he replied.

She glared at him in irritation. "For what?"

At that moment, as though sensing her annoyance, the lights flickered
back into life, the consoles began running through their diagnostics,
and the artificial gravity slowly returned. Usually that would have been
a relief---even now she should have thought it positive---but given
recent events, it seemed more like life returning to a dead thing.

The Human Disaster smiled. "For that."

---

**ADRIAN SAUNDERS**

Power had restored, almost as if he had intended it that way, but there
was not yet any way of knowing whether they were looking at survival or
a brief flicker of hope before a terrible end. Adrian didn't like to be
negative, but there was next to no hope of getting away from the
anomaly, and things weren't going to be helped by a small army of
monsters running around the ship.

"Trix, are you awake?" he asked, interfacing directly with the console.
"Rise and fucking shine!"

"This... isn't Spot," she replied after a moment, confused as expected.
"Adrian, what's happened and where are we? This is the... Amber
Radiance?"

"Long on story and short on time," he replied. "You have access to
everything?"

"I'm not connected directly to the computer core so the administrator
password would speed things along," she replied. "Things like the
kinetic drives."

Adrian looked up towards Laphor, who was watching him in confusion. That
was also expected, since she'd only be hearing half of the conversation
and lacked any understanding about... well, about almost everything.
"What's the administrator password? I need it if we're going to live."

It was only natural that she was reluctant to give out security keys,
but it seemed Laphor had decided to trust him over her own crew around
when things went all B--Movie. "The password is 'password', with a
'zero' instead of an 'erk' and a green triangle instead of a 'zock'."

"Are you fucking serious?" he asked, looking at her with contempt. Askit
would have had a field day with that nonsense, and probably could have
accessed it in half the time without even asking.

"It works, I'm in!" Trix reported almost immediately. "You might want to
sit down for---"

"Cancel that order!" Adrian interrupted quickly, remembering the command
given moments before Spot's intense burst of acceleration had caused him
to black out. "Seal the command deck and get some air back in here, and
find all life signs aboard the ship. If anyone outside this room
interacts with the computer, serve them bullshit."

The door slid shut with a decisive tremor, and a map of the vessel
appeared on the main screen with indicators showing the locations of
several groups of crewmembers moving around the ship.

"What's going on, Adrian?" Trix pressed. "I've detected Spot entangled
by the catch--cables on this ship..."

"Yeah, cut those cables and accelerate normally," he replied, sucking
sourly on his teeth as he watched the scan reports display his orders
being carried out. "That's the first ship I've had that wasn't destroyed
by *me*. What's the positronic charge count?"

"Seventy--six, give or take two points," she reported immediately.

"Give or take?" Adrian repeated, frowning. "What's that supposed to---"

"The sensor suite was better aboard Spot," Trix explained. "Oh, it just
elevated to seventy--seven, give or---"

"---take two points," Adrian finished bitterly. "Yeah, that's not a pain
in the arse at all. Add 'must have fucking awesome sensors' to the
shopping list for the next ship."

"Added," she reported. "Warp drive is ready but navigation is
uncalculated..."

Adrian bit his lip, knowing it was cutting things fine, and that an
uncalculated warp was incredibly dangerous, but even a little distance
could save them from what was coming. "I reckon it'd be a better idea to
get the fuck out of here, don't you?"

"Engaging the FTL," Trix replied. "There are lots of errors, Adrian...
this is very dangerous. You're sure?"

---

"Who are you talking to!?" Laphor finally asked.

"I am one--hundred--fucking--percent certain!" Adrian replied to Trix,
confident only in that inaction would result in certain death, then
turned to Laphor. "My friend was turned into a computer by an ancient
alien shadow government. I plugged her in to run the ship. How's the air
in here?"

"Atmosphere should be breathable," Trix reported.

"Helmets off then," Adrian ordered, looking at the sorry group of
surviving mercenaries. "We've probably got a ship full of brain--bugs,
so make it quick!"

They barely looked at Laphor for confirmation before removing their
helmets, each standing still and quiet while Adrian studied them with
intense focus. He wasn't completely sure what he was looking for, but he
did know what he'd seen in the floating body and there wasn't any of
that here. "Looks okay for the moment," he told them. "I think you're
all clear."

Laphor breathed out a held breath. "We're all... us, then?"

"Seems that way," Adrian replied, turning his attention back to giving
Trix orders. "What's happening with that FTL?"

"Field is up," she reported, "but movement is still sublight, and that
anomaly is visible from *within* the warp field. Count is now at
seventy--eight, give or take."

Adrian swallowed; that was potentially a charge count of eighty, which
was the critical value identified by the V'Straki in their remote
experiments.

"Your friend was turned into a computer program?" Laphor repeated,
somewhat behind the curve on things. "How... how in the void is that
even possible? The Corti!? It has to be the Corti!"

"It's not the Corti," Adrian replied. "How are things looking, Trix?"

"Bad," she reported. "Things look *bad*. The odds of us making it out of
this are low."

"No worse than usual, then?" he joked. "We've made it this far, Trix,
don't count us out yet."

"Seventy--nine," she announced tersely. "Give or take two points. If you
wanted to know how much it was out, I have some *really* good news for
you!"

"Shit," Adrian said, catching her meaning.

"Yes," she replied. "You might want to brace yourself."

Adrian leapt into a seat and grabbed hold of it, and called out for
Laphor and her crewmen to do the same. Only three of them were in
position when the wave hit the ship, stretching space and time
irregularly as shockwaves rippled across space--time and underlying warp
space. Screams erupted from all around as the ship lurched suddenly,
splattering those who weren't restrained against the ceiling before
jerking back in the other direction and splashing their remains all over
the command deck, and the sensors showed life--signs vanishing
throughout the ship as the sudden, shifting movements continued.

Finally the tremors passed, the warp--field vanished, and the universe
was replaced by a featureless darkness in all directions. Whatever
Adrian had been expected, it hadn't been 'nothingness'. Well... at least
not this *kind* of nothingness.

"This is... we're alive?" he asked, surprised by the development.

Laphor moved in her chair, groaning as she stretched her limbs out. "I
think that's an optimistic word for it."

"We're inside the wormhole, I think?" Adrian replied, partially as a
query to Trix for her own assessment.

"We are," she confirmed. "The only reason we're alive is because of the
warp field we were running when we passed through the eye. We would have
been crushed without it, although things aren't looking great right now.
I'm trying to guide us along a gravitationally neutral route."

"Any idea where we're going?" he asked her.

She laughed, a chittering sound for her species. "I'm still trying to
understand what this place is and keep us moving in a survivable
direction. My guess is that only the entrance was anchored."

"Single point of entry," he replied with a groan, and looked to the
quizzical face of Laphor. "We might be totally fucked, here."

"Then this is a very bad spot to be in," she surmised. "Can we do
anything to help?"

Adrian put the question to Trix. "Anything *anyone* can do for you?"

In reply, the dark display gave way to a false--colour imagery of the
same area. It looked as though the Amber Radiance was moving along a
river of bright pink, with alternative routes appearing and vanishing at
random along the scanned length of it. "It may appear as total darkness,
but we're in a relatively stable area where the warp field is still
possible and gravity is neutral. No, we can't leave the path, and no, we
can't just turn around and go back the way we came because *that* path
no longer exists."

Adrian frowned. "We're safe for the moment though?"

"I think '*safe*' is bit of an overstatement," Laphor interjected.
"Considering other factors. Where does this thing even come out?"

"It doesn't 'come out' anywhere," Trix replied. "As far as I can tell
the main path is simply continuous. If I were to guess, I'd say we have
to risk one of the semi--stable branches if we ever hope to get out of
here."

"Then we should pick one!" Laphor suggested. "The sooner we're out of
this place the better."

"Theoretically we could end up anywhere in the universe, at any point in
time," Trix patiently explained. "The odds of finding our way back home
are... not in our favour."

Adrian studied the image on the display, trying to figure out what their
best option was. V'Straki science had never mastered worm--hole
travel---the universe would be a very different place if they had---and
the mental data--dump only contained what was useful to an engineer
aboard a long--range heavy carrier. So far he'd been able to get
creative and turn functional technology into bombs, but trying to
engineer a way out of this situation would take more time and effort
than they had. "I think... fuck... we might have to chance it, Trix."

"Really?" she asked, surprised. "You're not going to try something
crazy?"

Adrian shook his head grimly. "I think we're still in the middle of my
crazy. Do we know anything at all about where those off--ramps will get
us?"

"They disappear before I can get much data on them," Trix replied, "but
I'm building up a list of data sets that can match what we scanned on
the way in."

"You're hoping if we find one that's similar enough, we'll end up
somewhere we recognise?" Adrian asked, and nodded in approval. It wasn't
the best plan, but it was about as good as they could hope for in these
conditions, and the longer they waited the more likely they'd lose their
chance.

"What happens if we end up half--way across the universe, a billion
years in the past?" Laphor asked, turning to look at the remains of her
crew with concern. "Do you think you'll be able to get us home?"

"Eventually," he replied, although without much confidence. It wasn't
exactly impossible, not if he could find enough spare parts for the
right kind of tech, but he imagined a deathworlder and a computerised
mind had a much better chance than these survival--challenged
mercenaries. "Hopefully it won't come to that."

"I have news," Trix interrupted, not sounding very pleased about it.
"There's been a change. Every 'off--ramp' is registering the same data,
and the main tunnel is changing in ways I don't understand."

"End of the road?" Adrian guessed, hoping that it was a good sign. "Take
the next chance you get, Trix! Let's roll the fucking dice one more
time!"

"If you say so!" she replied, and the consoles began to display the
rapid changes in movement needed as the vessel left the main path. The
ship lurched and jolted in all directions as the internal kinetics
failed to compensate, even with the protection of a warp--field, and
they needed to hold tight to the nearest fixture---the main computer
console in Adrian's case---to avoid being thrown from their feet.

"How. Fucking. Long. Will. This. Go. For!?" Adrian demanded in staccato
as he was shoved from one way to another by invisible forces.

"How long is a piece of string?" Trix answered, using Adrian's own
expression against him. "Don't complain about comfort when I'm trying to
keep the ship from falling to pieces!"

"Yes... ma'am," he replied, teeth gritted against the movements. Over
his shoulder he could see that the crew had managed to clamber into
chairs and were gripping them in white--knuckled terror. Provided they
did actually whiten under tension.

"I've detected an end point!" Trix reported a moment later, and the
display returned to black infinity. "Exit in five... four... three...
two... one..."

The stars returned as the ship burst back into normal space amongst a
growing cloud of debris being ejected. The dark forms of a thousand
asteroids, probes, and starships twisted and turned all around them as
the Amber Radiance veered and accelerated to avoid them. They were back
in normal space, their warp--field safely collapsed by the gravitic
shock.

"I have good news," Trix announced as collision detection systems
screamed their warnings. "We're back exactly where we were before. Same
place, same time!"

"Then what the fuck is all this shit?!" Adrian shouted back.

"At a guess... absolutely everything that's ever been pulled into a wild
wormhole and didn't manage to escape," she replied, silencing the alert.
"There's something else: the A.I. ship is here... and it's hailing us."


