---
title: One Step at a Time
---

# One Step at a Time

\

\

::: chapter
**Date Point 3 Years After Vancouver**

**Cimbrean Palace**

Jennifer Delaney. Mid--twenties, space--babe pirate queen. Haunted.
Driven. Sweaty.

Sweat poured from her brow as she continued her self--imposed exercise
regime, a solid mix of cardio and weights, along with some serious
martial arts training. She didn\'t know much in the way of martial arts,
that was true, but she had taken a womens self--defense course once or
twice when it was offered for free by the local council and there had
also been the summer her brothers had forced her to learn how to fight
so she could stop Moyra Carran from teasing her. At the very least
they\'d taught her well enough to knock Moyra\'s front fucking teeth
out, so she supposed that maybe it was time to bring a bit of the old
tomboy back.

Jennifer Delaney was not going to be beaten again. She was not going to
be hurt by any man, any alien, any *thing*. She was determined to become
what she had to be because what she had been had been so incredibly
insufficient.

And she still saw that fucker\'s face when she closed her eyes. His
*smile*...

She hated that smug fucker so much she almost wished he wasn\'t dead so
that she could have been the one to kill him. He had beaten her, he had
broken her, and the Jennifer Delaney of three months ago was *gone*.
That left the Jennifer Delaney that had punched a girl\'s teeth out just
for calling her fat; the Jennifer Delaney who\'d put one of her brothers
in hospital just because he wouldn\'t fuck off and leave her alone; the
Jennifer Delaney who was *angry all of the time*.

The others occasionally watched her train, stuck somewhere between awe
and fear. The friendly, casual relationship they had had prior to Irbzrk
was gone with the old Jen, and now they *obeyed* when she gave them an
order. The crew of the Zhadersil wasn\'t her play attempt at a pirating
democracy anymore, it was a cold, well--oiled machine that brought the
Celzi alliance closer to economic collapse every day, and in the past
three months her fleet and her troops had grown in number. They were
practically an army now, and trade in the Alliance had all but ceased.

The Dominion was very pleased.

Good for them; Jen didn\'t do it to please *them* anymore. She didn\'t
do it so that the Dominion would pay them. She did it so that everybody
would know to fear the name of Jennifer Delaney, to dread the name of
the Zhadersil. If they were afraid of her, they wouldn\'t send thugs
like Cameron White after her anymore, they\'d send an army. And if they
sent an army... well, the last three months had provided ample resources
for them to fight one of those as well.

She wondered if this was what Adrian had felt, this deep need to attack
until all of the dangers were gone. It was easy to imagine letting
herself get lost in the anger and pain and to destroy until there was
nothing left to cause either.

Finally she stopped her assault on the sand--filled bag, and wiped the
sweat away with the thick towel she kept for the express purpose. Next
would come her stretches and then a bath -- even the new Jen enjoyed
those -- and then a bite to eat before she patrolled the increasingly
well--provisioned defensive web.

"Trycrur," she said, activating her communicator as she slipped it back
on. "Do you hear me?"

"Yes, Jen," Trycrur responded after a moment. "I\'m out on the Defensive
Web... did you need something?"

"I\'m going to be taking a patrol through that later, is there anything
I need to be aware of?"

"The Eastern section is undergoing an upgrade using those new coilguns
we took from the Celzi cruiser we stole from the shipyard," Trycrur
replied. "I\'m going to be increasing its power supply to fall into line
with the others, so you should stay clear of it until I\'m done."

"Understood," Jen replied, "is that all?"

"That\'s all."

Jen ended the link, and opened a new one to Chir.

"Chir, what\'s your status?" she asked.

"Unloading materials for use in the weapons you were discussing with
Trycrur at our last meeting," Chir promptly replied. "The \'missiles\'
that she made for the Zhadersil, with some tweaks. This is the last of
the explosives we *require* for the number you specified."

"Good work," Jen said. "When you\'re done with that, organise a run
against one of the listed targets. We need to keep the pressure up."

"I\'ll inform Zripob to ready his team," Chir said. "I\'ll also put in
an order to get more medical supplies."

"Only half of what they have," Jen reminded him, "we\'re not monsters.
They just need to remember that the Alliance isn\'t looking after them."

"I know that," Chir replied, sounding slightly hurt.

"That wasn\'t instruction for *your* benefit, Chir," Jen replied
quickly. "Make sure that Zripob understands it is an *order*."

Chir sighed over the link. "Understood."

The last of her pre--bath business was completed, and Jen set about
making good on her plans for relaxation. There was, after all, little
benefit to being pirate queen if she didn\'t have time to engage in the
small luxuries that made living out amongst the stars tolerable.

She slipped out of her clothing and into the waters her servants had
drawn for her. That was another benefit of running a small pirating
empire -- being able to employee people to run around and take care of
the little chores that got in the way of the big things. Her clothes had
already been whisked away before she was reclining in the steaming
waters, leaning back so that with the exception of her face her whole
body was underwater. Her long red hair floated freely around her head
like a coppery halo, shimmering as it reflected the warm light of the
wide glowing orb that illuminated the room.

Here in the hot water she could let her eyes close and her body relax.
It was as if this bathtub was the impenetrable heart of her empire, that
even though this was where she was at her most vulnerable, the warm
waters that embraced her could also protect her like a shield against
life\'s misfortunes. Here she could let her mind return to that day --
as her mind was inclined to do any time she closed her eyes for more
than a few moments -- and feel no fear, no hate, no anything. She could
see it again as if she were only an observer, and could at least try to
focus on other things.

Other things like the blue creature that had saved her from White. The
blue--hairy creature had worn shorts, she had remembered that with a
laugh. It was as though he had been trying to impersonate Beast from
X--Men, but hadn\'t quite managed it.

That hadn\'t stopped her from naming him Beast, because nobody else
could tell her anything about him at all. Not his name, not his species,
not where he came from or why he had taken an interest in beating the
daylights out of White while saving her life. Beast was a mystery.

But he had noticed her watching him, before she had slipped into
unconsciousness. He had been on the verge of killing White -- she
wouldn\'t have blamed him if he had -- but he had stopped at the last
moment and had been stricken. He was an alien, but she was sure there
had been sorrow in his eyes. She was entirely certain of that.

Those eyes had haunted her even more profoundly, in some ways, than
White\'s had. At least with White the reasons were clear, his motives,
while twisted, were basic and could be understood from a certain
perverse point of view. White was a monster, and any mysteries about him
were of no interest to anyone anymore. Beast was a monster too, a savage
brute of a creature capable of overpowering a human man of White\'s size
-- which led to the question of how it was nobody knew anything about
such a species when there was such an uproar about humanity -- but Beast
had something else...

She had it! Beast had the same intensity that had allured her to Adrian!

That made her laugh out loud. God, surely she couldn\'t be horny for a
big blue alien! She must have PTSD *bad* if she was willing to go to bed
with anything just because it could protect her by beating a man to
death in a savage rage.

She smiled like an idiot for the rest of her bath, glad at least that
she could still laugh at herself. After all, you had to enjoy the small
things or you\'d go completely bonkers.

⁂

**Local Space near Cavaras, Corti Directorate Core World**

"I have you now," Adrian said, leering over the small Corti with a
predatory grin. "No escape."

"Check," Askit replied, moving his bishop into position, "and Mate."

Askit savoured the pause as Adrian tried to figure out what had just
happened.

"You talk shit," Adrian replied in clear disbelief. "How the fuck did
you manage that?"

"My species genetically modified themselves to enhance our intellect to
genius levels," Askit told him. "Alternatively, have you considered that
you might just not be any good?"

Adrian laughed. "Well, fuck you too."

Their communicators beeped simultaneously and they shared a glance
before turning their eyes towards the devices, although they already
knew what they\'d see there.

"Message from Gdugnir," Adrian said. "Looks like it\'s time then."

They clicked on their utility belts, giving each other a brief check.

"You\'re ready for this?" Askit asked Adrian, just in case there was any
chance that he wasn\'t. It didn\'t seem very likely.

"Mate, I\'m a hairy blue ball of violence," Adrian replied. "I was born
ready."

"Savage violence," Askit corrected, "and good to hear. It\'s a pity that
this is a diplomatic meeting, then."

"Big fucking pity," Adrian agreed. "But maybe they\'ll have canapés?"

"What are canapés?" Askit asked. "They\'re not like Cornettos, are they?
Because I checked..."

"Canapés," Adrian said, looking dumbfounded that nobody knew what he was
talking about, like that was some new kind of problem. "You know, finger
food... horses doovers."

Askit frowned. "I don\'t know what a \'horse\' is, but if my translator
worked properly I don\'t think they\'ll be serving those."

"We\'re docking now," Gdugnir said over the speaker system. "Try not to
kill the important people this time."

"She says it like it wasn\'t self--defense last time," Adrian replied
with a grimace.

"I\'m not sure self--defense warranted using the meeting table as some
sort of bludgeoning weapon," Askit mused. "Maybe this time just hurt
them enough to... re--strategise to a non--violent solution?"

"To surrender, you mean?" Adrian asked. "I told them to surrender..."

"You were screaming, as I recall it, something along the lines of \'fuck
all you fucking fuckers, on the floor right fucking now or I\'ll fucking
fuck the fuck out of you\'," Askit reminded him. "Although I may
paraphrase."

Adrian cleared his throat, and had the decency to look embarrassed. "It
was \'I\'ll fucking kick the fuck out of you\'..."

"My mistake," Askit said. "I\'ll endeavour for greater accuracy in
future. Ah, look! The door is opening!"

They both stood ready, although Askit pointedly stood behind the big
blue human in case of some sort of incredibly violent assault as soon as
the doors opened. Were that to occur, Askit did want to be between
Adrian and the people he was about to kill.

There was no sudden barrage of weaponsfire and onslaught of violence.
The nearest thing that Askit could consider to be an onslaught was being
performed by the inept instrumentalist who was murdering the music of
Tketh the Greater. But the instrumentalist was a Vzk\'tk, so what could
you expect?

"Ambassadors!" came the delighted call of their host, the reknown
Rrrrtktktkp\'ch businessman, Lrkk\'tptkt. He was putting on the delight,
of course -- nobody in their right mind was delighted to see Adrian and
Askit -- but he was making every effort at cordiality and that was worth
something. The winds of fortune had changed in the Directorate since
Iridis Industries had suffered an unfortunate setback involving major
destructive events at all its sites and in all its product warehouses.
Those events had been ruled \'suspicious\', but while the cases had been
closed from lack of evidence, everybody who needed to know what had
happened had learned it pretty damned fast. There was a secret war on
within the Directorate and the Corporations that sought to control it,
and as far as Askit could tell he and Adrian were winning.

"Good to meet you in person, Mister Lurk--tipticket," Adrian said
politely, proving that he could manage to act the part even if he
mangled the name beyond the ability of the translators to cope. It was
some combination of his mouth and his accent that made the accurate
translation effectively impossible, but Lrkk\'tptkt was, to his credit,
gracious about it.

"Likewise, of course," Lrkk\'tptkt replied. "Please, help yourself to
the food as you see fit. We are merely waiting on one more before we can
begin."

He waved a hand towards the buffet table, which Askit was greatly amused
to see contained about enough food to feed Adrian for the first half of
his day. Ah, the differences between Deathworlders and everybody else...

"Our employer did say you expected Jekal of the Coro Cavan corporation
to join us," Askit said. "I personally find it surprising, given his
activities, that he would be so enthusiastic about joining with us."

"Please, Ambassador Askit," Lrkk\'tptkt said, "let us not insult his
intelligence. It is clear who the eventual victors of this...
disagreement will be, and it\'s only natural to want to be on the right
side of history."

"A practical decision, then," Askit noted, his glance momentarily
drifting over to where Adrian was sampling the cuisine and giving the
table they rested on an experimental lift. "Not unexpected of someone
such as Jekal. I hope he is as trustworthy as you believe."

"I have known Jekal for a very long time," Lrkk\'tptkt said, "and I
doubt he would betray me aboard my own ship."

The communicator on Lrkk\'tptkt\'s bracelet beeped, and he smiled
politely. "Speak of the rzktk! It seems we can finally commence."

Moments later the second door opened to a squad of Allebenellin shock
troopers -- or robo--slugs as Adrian preferred to call them -- carrying
anti--tank guns.

They began firing on Adrian almost as soon as they got eyes on him, so
immediate that it was clear that they\'d come here knowing he was the
most dangerous thing in the room. They were armed heavily enough to take
down a Vulza, with fusion blades waiting to be drawn if the anti--tank
guns were not enough.

Askit sighed, this was just going to be a repeat of the incident aboard
the Cora Mavun and nobody had gone home happy after that one, although
he had to admit that essentially all of the participants who hadn\'t
been Adrian had not actually gone home at all. Or lived.

Askit turned to the Rrrrtktktkp\'ch businessman with a bored look.
"Still think he wouldn\'t betray you?"

"But... Jekal!" the businessman managed.

"Jekal is about to experience a dire need to re--strategise to a
non--nonviolent solution," Askit told him with a sniff. "Although I
can\'t say my associate there will be in a mood to allow it, so it looks
like it\'ll just be you who makes the wise move to our side."

Adrian chose that moment to punctuate Askit\'s point by pushing forward
while carrying the buffet table as cover and punching through the
\'armour\' the Allebenellin had assumed would protect them. Against
Adrian\'s bare hands that might have worked, but ever since the Cora
Mavun he\'d carried something he liked to call \'knuckle dusters\',
heavy pieces of hardened steel for him to grip in his hands and take the
abuse that his fingers would otherwise endure. It was a simple concept,
but when put to use they were a thing of destructive beauty.

"By the stars," Lrkk\'tptkt gasped with wide, disbelieving eyes. "He\'s
so *fast*... and he just *punched* through shock trooper armour!"

"Like I was saying, businessman" Askit continued with a wicked grin.
"Welcome to the winning side."

⁂

**Council Hall on Cavaras, Corti Directorate Core World**

Councilor Hrbrd was going through his reports. He usually liked to do
this in front of his employees, he found it tended to make them
uncomfortable and wonder what was going to happen to them next.

He was not doing that to Adrian and his little team, even if Margarita
was looking particularly uncomfortable. He was doing it because the
number of reports that were coming across his desk had jumped roughing
one thousand percent since he\'d started their little crusade.

"Jekal of the Coro Cavan corporation flew his ship into the sun today,"
he said, looking at the report that had tracked the trajectory of the
powerful Corti\'s vessel as it made its final, fiery descent. "Do you
have any idea why a Corti with his kind of wealth and influence would
feel the need to do that?"

The group looked between each other, but only Margarita had the decency
to look uncomfortable, the others simply appeared to look amused with
themselves.

"Extreme sports?" ventured Adrian. "Bad breakup?"

Hrbrd sighed. "Was he alive when this happened?"

"Mostly," Askit replied. "I think he was missing an arm, and maybe part
of a leg."

Hrbrd sighed again, he seemed to be doing a lot of that lately. They
were winning their little war, there was no doubt of that, but it was
causing considerable disturbance within the corporations and the
Directorate itself, although that disturbance had yet to filter out into
general society.

"Then I will assume that he had it coming," he said. "And at the very
least you have managed to convince Lrkk\'tptkt to join our noble cause.
Having him on our side will go a long way towards convincing others to
make the switch... as will Jekal\'s unfortunate fate."

Margarita looked uncertain. "You\'re not mad, Councilor?"

"Margarita," Hrbrd said, "your agents here have managed to infuriate me
while delighting me at the same time. Suffice it to say that I am
ambivalent, but I cannot deny that you are getting results far more
quickly than I had hoped, even taking into consideration their
unauthorised visit to Irbzrk."

"We stopped a monster," Gdugnir protested. "He would have kept on
killing--"

"And as a result there is now a story of a blue--haired beast powerful
enough to take down a human," Hrbrd interrupted. "They even built a
statue of it."

Askit snickered at some unknown source of hilarity.

"The news networks are looking for more stories about the blue--haired
beast," Hrbrd continued. "You are to avoid providing them with any. That
is an order!"

"And if it can\'t be helped?" Adrian asked.

"Then do whatever needs to be done," Hrbrd told him, "and make sure that
word does not get out. We are getting too close to a significant change
in Directorate administration and policy for the news networks to come
in and cause problems."

"Her--bird," Adrian said, grossly mispronouncing his name as usual but
not, as Hrbrd had once thought, on purpose. "When do we start taking
these politicians down?"

"The politicians are corrupt," Hrbrd told him. "They will do as they\'re
instructed, so long as the money is good enough. Even vote against their
own long--term interests."

Adrian and Askit glanced between each other and began to laugh.

"You\'re going to force the corporations into paying the corrupt
politicians to pass policy that will get rid of them," Adrian said with
a grin. "Aren\'t you?"

Askit grinned similarly, having picked up the habit from the human he\'d
evidently spent far too much time with. "It\'s a good plan, if it
works," he said. "But do you also intend to break down the
corporations?"

Hrbrd paused. He hadn\'t shared much of his plan, and yet they had
managed to outline it so completely after the merest hint. Askit he
could understand, the Corti hacker was brilliant, but that Adrian had
managed it... that was concerning.

"That\'s right," he admitted unhappily. "But the corporations will need
to be fought across the Dominion, not just the Directorate. One step at
a time."
:::
