---
title: Dead Mans Switch
---

# Dead Mans Switch

\

\

::: chapter
"What kind of \'little trip\'?" Adrian asked suspiciously. There wasn\'t
any reason for the little bald dictator to get Chir to put questions to
him, or to let him know about travel plans. Not unless you considered
that Adrian had some kind of friendly relationship with Chir that he
didn\'t share with Bekmer, and that this was expected to provide some
kind of leverage over him. It was almost like the Corti knew *about*
friendship and trust without understanding how they actually work.

"He didn\'t say," Chir answered, "but I\'d be hesitant to trust anything
he says."

Adrian nodded tersely, although he was glad that Chir shared his
mistrust of the unpleasant little alien; ever since coming amongst
aliens he\'d never been entirely certain that he was picking up on
things that were actually there. "Mate, back on Earth there\'s a saying
about something looking and smelling like bullshit."

"Oh?" Chir asked. "What\'s the saying?"

Adrian faltered at that, normally people knew the implications of
something looking and smelling like bullshit. "It means it\'s bullshit.
All lies, total crap."

"That is a terrible saying," Chir said with some disappointment. "What
do you intend to do?"

"I\'ll ask Treoffa what\'s going on," Adrian decided. "She\'s usually a
bit more up front about what\'s actually going on."

"She is as duplicitous as Bekmer," Chir stated in annoyance. "If not
more--so! You should take it as a rule to never trust a Corti!"

"Well she did keep me alive," Adrian reminded him. "That counts in her
favour."

Chir shook his head vigorously, trying to mimic the human movement of
emphatic denial and succeeding brilliantly. "No, that\'s just more
\'bullshit\'. You\'re a human! You\'re the most dangerous thing on two
legs, and they wanted you to help defend this ship. The rest of us they
had to enslave, but--"

"Wait, come again?" Adrian interrupted. "Enslaved?!"

There was a heavy pause as Chir hesitated, clearly shocked. "Nobody told
you? We\'ve all got cerebral detonators -- bombs -- in our heads! One
wrong move and blam! It\'s all over!"

Hot anger rose in Adrian\'s gut, he could feel it bringing on the edge
of his temper and clouding his judgement. He liked Chir well enough, and
he didn\'t like Bekmer at all, but he *hated* slavery, and right now the
image of pounding the little grey alien\'s head into mush was all too
tempting. "How long has this been going on?" he asked, nearly growling
the question. "How long has that little motherfucker had his claws in
you?"

"We were abducted to be brought here as slave--soldiers not long before
you emerged from the medical bay," Chir explained. "We were told our
situation, and that we\'d be released if we behaved ourselves and did
our work."

"And you trusted him?" Adrian asked with some surprise.

"Not at all," Chir scoffed, "but so long as there\'s a chance..."

"So long as there\'s a chance, you won\'t fight back," Adrian finished
for him, understanding completely. Hope could really fuck a man over
when it was used against him, and it looked like the Corti was clever
enough to know that much. "How about I go over and rip his fucking arms
off, then slap him to death with them?"

"Maybe that would work," Chir said, "if the entire Salvage crew didn\'t
have access to the kill switch. Do you think that you can contain them
all before they blow our brains out? Are you so sure that you also
don\'t have a detonator they simply neglected to tell you about? If you
attack Bekmer he\'ll either threaten to kill *you* with a detonator, or
the rest of us."

"You\'re saying he\'ll use your lives to protect his own from me,"
Adrian said, his body tense with restrained anger. "It makes sense for a
bastard like him."

"And as a result," Chir continued, "we are, as *you* might say, \'proper
fucked.\'"

Adrian pondered the matter for a brief moment, then broke into his
predatory grin. "Not necessarily. Go get the others, I\'ve got a plan."

⁂

"No," Treoffa snapped, "I\'ve already told you four times, Bekmer! I
haven\'t seen them! I will let you know if they contact me at all, but
if you really want to talk to them why don\'t you talk the walk down to
the reactor room and check in on them yourself?!"

She disconnected the call in anger, then forced herself to return to
calm professionalism. Lately there had been too little of that, and
although much of it could be blamed on the human as a catalyst, Treoffa
considered the rest of it to be solely the result of Bekmer\'s poor
decision making.

Wherever the two technicians were hiding, she thought, they\'d better be
working on the reactor. Nothing would save them from *her* fury if
they\'d spent this time slacking off when *Hunters* could be closing on
their location for all they knew.

"Could this day get any worse?!" she said to herself, and then jumped in
her seat as she was startled by the opening door.

It was just the Rauwryhr female. Treoffa relaxed; after Bekmer\'s most
recent rant she didn\'t think she had the mental strength left to deal
with the human, but the Rauwryhr were a straightforward species. Not
especially bright for the most part, but acceptably logical in spite of
their attachment to emotion and empathy.

"Can I help you?" Treoffa asked as the slave--soldier stepped into the
room. The girl had a kinetic gun, but it was slung at her side and she
seemed nervous rather than aggressive. "Is something the matter?"

"There are two things I really need to know," the Rauwyrhr female said,
coming closer. "Two things that could be very important to both of
us..."

Treoffa frowned. "What are you talking about? If this is some kind of
trick, do not forget my power over you!"

"Ah," said the Rauwyrhr, flinching back. "I had not forgotten! In fact
that is part of why I came to see you. The human has found out about our
cerebral detonators... he wasn\'t pleased, and is on his way to see
Bekmer!"

"What?!" Treoffa exclaimed. "Why didn\'t you say something sooner!?"

"Bekmer will undoubtedly threaten him with our deaths... unless you\'ve
got one in the human\'s head as well, of course, but I don\'t want to
die and I thought maybe you could help!" the Rauwyrhr rambled. "Maybe I
can help you! I\'m a friendly voice, after all! I could calm him down!"

"Y--yes," Treoffa said, still shaken from the revelation. "That\'s an
excellent suggestion! If you can manage it, I\'ll be certain to put in a
good word for you with Bekmer!"

The Rauwyrhr female\'s attitude shifted immediately from defeat into
anticipation. "By that I take it that he doesn\'t have a cerebral
detonator as well."

"What?" Treoffa asked, off--balance at the sudden shift in behaviour.
"No, he-- How dare you?!"

"My second question, Treoffa," the Rauwyrhr said confidently, taking an
unmarked canister from her pocket with her thumb held down on the
mechanism on top. "Have you ever heard of a \'Dead Man\'s Switch\'?"

⁂

This was a terrible plan, Trycrur thought to herself as she held the
entirely inert canister in front of her as though it might do something.
Adrian had said that normally people would use explosives for this
purpose, but for today that role would be served by something that just
happened to look the part, so long as Trycrur could manage the required
deception.

Zripob and Chir had been sent down to the reactor to take care of the
two technicians, Adrian had gone after Bekmer personally, and Trycrur
had been tasked with deceiving the female Corti.

This was a terrible plan, but it seemed to be working.

Treoffa was eyeing the canister warily. She hadn\'t moved. It seemed
like she did know what a Dead Man\'s Switch was, and suspected the
worst, just like Adrian had said she would.

"Looks like you have some idea what this is," Trycrur continued,
reciting the lines she had been given with a bit of her own
improvisation thrown in. "We built it out of parts from a kinetic gun,
so that it will fire a single, powerful, kinetic pulse in all directions
if the mechanism is released. The force will turn us both into a fine
paste on the walls."

"You would threaten to kill us both?" Treoffa asked, apparently trying
to force some scepticism into her voice and failing miserably. She
hadn\'t once taken her eyes off the canister, and her fear was palpable.
"It\'s Trycrur, isn\'t it? Surely we can work something out?"

"Whether I kill us both depends on whether you try killing us first,"
Trycrur replied. "You *could* start killing the others, but then you\'d
still be stuck in here with me and an armed kinetic grenade. Not ideal
for you, especially when you have to consider whether Bekmer has the
same interest in preserving your life that you do."

"I assume you are going somewhere with this?" Treoffa asked peevishly,
dropping the pretence of professionalism at last. "You can\'t just be
here to stand around threatening me?"

Trycrur had to give her credit for skipping ahead to the better offer,
it made this flow a little more easily for her. "I\'m glad you asked.
You and I will be taking a short walk out to the Salvage ship where we
and the rest of your crew are going to have an interesting talk."

⁂

"You think you can walk in here and *threaten* me?" Bekmer hissed,
seething at the sheer audaciousness with which the human had kicked in
his door and presented him with the ultimatum.

"Yeah," Adrian replied coolly, nodding towards the deadly device in his
hand. "I do. Let\'s not forget that this grenade will smear you across
your office, but the worst it will give me is a bloody nose."

Bekmer practically shook with rage. He couldn\'t remember the last time
he\'d been so angry, or the last time he\'d been so completely
outsmarted. The threat of explosive death had been intended to be used
with the slave--soldiers alone; he couldn\'t have imagined that they
would have turned the threat of it so neatly on its head without the
human\'s help. Once again a human was ruining Bekmer\'s life, and he was
forced to admit that with this he had come to thoroughly despise them as
a species.

"I\'m going to tell you what\'s going to happen now," Adrian continued,
entirely in calm control of the situation. "We\'re going to go to your
ship, and there\'s going to be a group discussion."

"Oh?" sneered Bekmer. "Just what will we be discussing there? Freedom
perhaps? Revenge? Do you intend to torture me?"

"I considered torturing you," Adrian told him with such bluntness that
Bekmer didn\'t doubt it. "The others talked me out of it, so you already
owe them that much. Turns out they\'d much rather freedom over revenge.
But this is the conversation we need to be having as a group, get
moving!"

⁂

Chir and Zripob were running, not having wasted any particular time to
inspect the charred corpses of the Rrrrtktktkp\'ch once the pulsing blue
searing light had swept across them, and a mechanical voice had said "No
match found". Both of them were smart enough to know a messed up
situation when they found themselves in one, and they\'d proceeded to
extricate themselves out of it just as a hot pulse of concentrated
energy blasted into the metal of the walls.

"What was that?!" Zripob croaked as they rounded the first corner into
cover. He was breathing heavily from sudden exertion.

"How should I know?!" Chir asked, his own breathing less heavy thanks to
a body more suited to a flat run. "That thing would have killed us,
though. I\'m willing bet it was what turned those Rrrrtktktkp\'ch into
barbecue."

"Into what?" Zripob asked, and Chir realised that again this was
probably something that he alone had discovered from a human.

"It\'s a human thing," Chir answered weakly. "It\'s where you cook meat
until it is charred."

"Sounds wasteful," Zripob replied disdainfully. "With their dietary
demands you wouldn\'t think they\'d want to waste anything."

Rapid metal clanking in the hallway behind them brought them back to the
situation at hand. It seemed the thing that had killed the technicians,
the thing that had tried to kill them, was in pursuit.

"Perhaps now is not the time for such discussions," Zripob judged.

⁂

Trycrur and Treoffa had arrived first in the small meeting room,
followed soon after by Adrian and Bekmer, and Trycrur could see that,
like her, Adrian still had the fake grenade held out to look dangerous.

The room itself was small and functional, with little besides a table
and six padded chairs. Every surface was clean, gleaming metal, and the
walls were covered in metal tiles whose logical arrangement made you
think \'science\'. It was to its very core a Corti meeting room.

"All of the important people are here, then," Adrian said in obviously
fake cheer once the two Corti had been seated. "We may as well get
started."

"What about the others?" Trycrur asked. "Shouldn\'t we wait for them?"

"These are the guys in charge, Trix," Adrian replied. "It doesn\'t
matter what giraffe guys think once we\'ve convinced these this
fuckstick and his second--in--command."

"We can hear you, you know," Bekmer interjected. "And we know what your
demands are."

"Freedom, yes?" Treoffa guessed. "I can remove the--"

"If we give them that they\'ll just kill us," Bekmer interrupted,
turning his hard gaze towards Adrian, and Trycrur had to admit that the
Corti was brave to do so. She doubted she\'d have been able to so much
as meet Adrian\'s gaze had she been in his position. "Isn\'t that right,
human?"

"Maybe," Adrian replied. "We could do that, but these people just want
to go back to their lives. They\'re willing to forget about the whole
fucking thing if they can live through this little school trip you\'ve
got going on here."

"And what about you?" Bekmer asked. "Will you forget?"

"Oh, you know me, baldy," Adrian said with a grin, "I\'m like a fucking
elephant."

"You know we have no idea what that is!" Bekmer accused. "You are taking
advantage of our ignorance!"

"That\'s right, baldy," Adrian said, leering over the small, grey alien
who was still trying to look in charge. "I\'m taking advantage of your
ignorance, much helped by the fact that you\'re dumber than a box of
rocks. But if you just want to fuck around, maybe your
second--in--command would enjoy a field promotion!?"

Bekmer hesitated as he glanced towards Treoffa, whom he found looking
directly at the table in front of her. Trycrur could see he looked
desperate, and he wasn\'t getting any support from his
second--in--command when he needed it most. The situation was completely
abnormal, so far beyond anything they or Trycrur had any experience with
that unless you knew what you were doing there didn\'t seem to be any
way out. Trycrur remained confident because Adrian was confident,
although he was probably confident because he was most likely insane.

"If you guarantee our safety," Bekmer said levelly, but with black
hatred in his expression, "I will have Treoffa remove the detonators,
and we will release you all at the earliest possible opportunity."

Trycrur suppressed her excitement, forcing herself to remain cool and
detached -- a completely professional detachment intended to give off
the air of dangerousness. Adrian had said that she\'d be the cool voice
of reason to his violent psychopath, which she had to admit was a lot
easier than the other way around.

"That sounds satisfactory, Adrian," she said. "It will need to be done
immediately, of course. We can\'t trust them to leave our sight before
then."

"You heard the lady," Adrian said. "Treoffa will need to remove the
detonators as soon as your technicians join us."

The hissing sound of the pneumatics working the door alerted them all to
the new arrivals, and Trycrur and Adrian turned expectantly as Chir and
Zripob fought to burst through the door at the same time. Both of them
were heaving great gulps of air as they leaned on the walls for support.

"What happened?" Trycrur asked immediately, wincing as she broke
character.

"Hah!" Bekmer said. "It seems that everything did not go as you had
planned, human!"

"The technicians..." gasped Chir. "Dead."

"What the fuck did you do?" Adrian asked. "They weren\'t the sort of
guys who put up a fucking fight."

"We did not kill them," Zripob grunted. "They were dead when we found
them... we barely escaped the same awful fate."

"They were barbecued!" Chir declared. "By a robotic killing machine!"

There was a tense silence that hung over the room, and Trycrur realised
that everyone, even the Corti, were looking at Adrian.

"You have got," he said, "to be fucking kidding me."
:::
