# S - Taking Care of Business
***Salvage***

---

**Cavaras, Corti Directorate Core World**

The receptionist looked at Adrian with the same pure contempt that he
recalled Bekmer possessing. He also recalled just how much he had wanted
to crush that snide little Corti. To this snide little Corti he directed
a tight smile and hard gaze.

"You need an appointment to see the senior employees," the Corti said.
"Do you *have* an appointment?"

It was clear what answer the Corti was expecting. If he thought Adrian
had an appointment with a senior employee he would be treating him with
a touch more respect.

That cheeky little fucker didn\'t know who he was messing with. Adrian
kept his own cheeky grin on the inside.

"An appointment?" he asked, feigning confusion and revelling in the
Corti\'s rapidly escalating sense of self--satisfaction.

"I am sorry to inform you that without an appointment--"

That was the moment to interrupt. "I don\'t understand. Goftk didn\'t
say anything about needing an appointment. He just told me to come in
and show all the senior employees my awesome idea."

The Corti hesitated. Adrian had done his research -- or had Askit do it
for him -- and Goftk was one of the bigger names amongst the senior
employees. His was the kind of name you dropped when you wanted to scare
the shit out of the prick on the front desk.

"You\'re acquaintances with senior employee Goftk?" the Corti asked with
a great deal more respect in his voice.

"Close friends with his children," Adrian claimed. "We practically grew
up together."

The Corti had managed to achieve a lighter shade of grey. "And you have
an invention..."

"That\'s right," Adrian replied cheerfully. "It\'s a variation on the
\'Cornetto\', which I\'m sure you\'ve heard of. I mean you\'d have to
have been living under a rock not to have, even if you don\'t own any."

The Corti hesitated again. This time he smiled thinly. "I happen to own
several." he said so uncertainly that it was nearly a question. Adrian
had correctly determined that a large part of Corti society was
pretending to be important until you managed to actually become
important.

"One is never enough, is it?" Adrian asked. "I myself have had many over
the course of my life. Fortunately my invention is backwards compatible
with older versions as well, so if you were to want to upgrade it would
only cost you about a thousand credits. Very reasonable, all things
considered, yes? Of course even if it wasn\'t we\'re all about to be so
rich you could just replace your collection with new models!"

The Corti agreed with as much enthusiasm as any Corti could manage.

"So," Adrian said, "can you tell me where to find Goftk? I don\'t like
to keep him waiting."

⁂

Askit had been listening through the micro--comm that Adrian had hidden
under his mess of blue fur, waiting for the human to be alone before
speaking his mind.

"What is a \'Cornetto\' anyway?" he asked. The way the human had been
talking it sounded like a must have item of great expense. "Is it really
as valuable as you said?"

The human gave a soft chuckle over the link. "Mate, there were some days
out in the desert where I would have just about killed for one."

Askit made a mental note to acquire several should he ever find a
supplier.

"Right now I am coming up on the security section," Adrian continued,
and Askit was back on task. "More fucking robo slugs"

"You\'re unarmed so they won\'t pay you much attention," Askit told him.
"But they won\'t let you near their consoles, and those \'robo slugs\'
rarely need to move. What are you going to do? "

"Mate," Adrian replied, and Askit could hear the smile in the human\'s
voice, "this next part is down to you."

"Me?" Askit asked, not understanding. His part was supposed to start
*after* Adrian had inserted the wireless jackpoint.

"I added a driving path to the cabs nav system," Adrian explained.
"Check the databank for the file named \'Ram Raid\'. You\'ll want to get
out of the vehicle before running it. Take your stuff and be ready to
get clear. Once I get to the roof you will need to get your own way back
to base."

Askit wasn\'t sure what was about to happen, but he did what the human
said and exited the small electric vehicle. Part of him didn\'t like the
surprise change in plans, but the rest of him was curious and while he
retreated a short distance it was only to slip into cover from which he
could watch but not be seen.

The cab drove its way carefully around the road laid out before the
headquarters, and at first Askit wondered how that would be of any use.
Surely a simple streetcab couldn\'t provide anything helpful?

That was when that simple streetcab underwent a sudden burst of
acceleration, far faster than anything it was designed to handle. It
shook so hard that it roared as it raced up the staircase at the front
of the building and gained flight as it reached the top.

Moments later it crashed through the foyer in a thunderous blast of
destruction and the elegant framework that had served as the entrance
was crumpling around it to the horrific screams of people and twisting
metal.

"What have I done?" Askit asked himself in horror, unable to pull his
eyes from the scene. This was the most destructive thing he\'d ever
done, the most irresponsible and public as well. He was a little shocked
to find that he also slightly enjoyed it.

"Sounds like you\'ve caused a big fucking scene," Adrian replied
appreciatively, reminding Askit that the communicator link was still
active. "Even the Robo Slugs needed to go take a look. Fuck, I\'m half
tempted to myself, but there\'s work to do mate, and now you\'re really
up. Time to do what they\'re paying you for."

Askit shook his head to clear his thoughts, there would be time to
consider what had occurred later. Right now there was just the work
they\'d planned out and nothing else. Not if he wanted to stay free, at
any rate. "You\'ve attached the jackpoint?" he asked. "Oh, wait... I see
it now. Leave this to me, and head up. I\'ll guide you when you get to
the executive floors."

⁂

Goftk sent a message downstairs for another report on what was happening
and received back the same nonsense answer as before. An unoccupied
streetcab had gone haywire and launched itself through the entrance to
land in the foyer, causing enormous amounts of destruction and injury
but thankfully no deaths.

They\'d said it was an accident, but Goftk wasn\'t that naive;
streetcabs didn\'t just shoot themselves into buildings, it was far more
likely that it had been some sort of attack. He had acted accordingly,
ordering corporate security to take care of the scene and not allow
anyone to use the confusion to enter the building without
identification.

He kept his kinetic pulse gun ready just in case -- you could *never* be
too careful, after all -- but he poured himself a full glass of ckforti
nectar, dripping a single droplet of nahakh\'kk venom into the thick
syrup to give it a sharp stimulating effect.

He needed the kick; he was sure that today wasn\'t going to get better
before it got worse, and he took up careful watch from his office
window. The corporate headquarters for Iridis Industries was one tallest
buildings on Cavaras, eclipsed only by the enormous Star Spike tower
that breached the atmosphere at the equator. That might be the tallest
building on the planet, but Goftk\'s tower was still tall enough to
enjoy the view.

That was when the light gunship uncloaked outside his window.

Goftk dropped his glass, barely registering the fact that it shattered
as it hit the floor, turning it slick with nectar. Instinct took over
and, although in the back of his mind he knew there was no escape, he
still turned to flee.

The floor at his feet was *very* slick indeed.

Goftk fell, facing his office door as it burst open with the force of a
cannon to reveal a blue--haired biped with an angry demeanour.

It pointed a furry hand at him. "You Goftk? Bad day to be you, but at
least it wasn\'t Plan B!"

Without further hesitation, the creature drove Goftk\'s expensive office
table through his big glass window, and the room was filled with the
deafening screams of the high altitude winds outside.

The last thing that Goftk was aware of was the creature picking him up
without even the slightest hint of effort, and a great leap into the
open sky towards the gunship.

Goftk blacked out from terror. It had seemed easier that way.

⁂

**Irbzrk Orbital Factory Main Station**

Jennifer Delaney did not want to be here. At Irbzrk Orbital Factory that
was, although she supposed that she would feel that way anywhere outside
of her little home back in Belfast. It was probably repossessed now,
with all those missed mortgage repayments, but for a little while it had
been hers.

And unlike space it hadn\'t held any total psychos who were trying to
kill her, or any dangerous Australian badboys to develop complicated
relationships with.

There had been a lot of murders in the past few days. Sick and twisted
incidents that revealed a deranged mind, and a lot of them had come with
personal messages for Jen. She didn\'t want to think about them, but it
wasn\'t the sort of thing that you could get out of your mind.

It was obvious that he was showing off for her. What he did was to get
her attention -- how could it not? -- but what was less obvious was why.

"He\'s only writing messages to you," Zripob had observed. "Do you have
any ideas why that is?"

"I have *fears* about why that is," Jen said. "Like maybe he\'s working
his way up to me. Or maybe he\'s toying with me to show me how much more
clever he is. Or maybe he has \'other\' plans, but if he tries anything
like that he\'ll be nursing his jewels for a month."

"This behavior of his is insane," Zripob said. "We cannot predict him,
and yet we have to stop him. Jen, you are also a human and this is why
we hope you can understand and predict him for us. Tell me what you
think and I will pass it on to the others."

That had been another problem; the rumours had spread further and
increased in viciousness to the point where Jen could no longer walk
freely on the station. She\'d been confined to the ship since they\'d
docked in an effort to mollify public outrage but as the days progressed
and the killer remained uncaught the mood had further deteriorated. It
was already impossible to find anyone willing to do business with them
and that wouldn\'t be changing until there was justice.

"There have been no sightings of any human on the station," Zripob
continued. "They\'ve got hover cams patrolling the streets, like you
suggested, so that if there was another murder maybe we\'d see
something."

"But he keeps killing and all we\'ve got is what he leaves us," she
replied. "It\'s like he knows where--"

She stopped. The thought had come suddenly and it seemed so obvious that
she was angry at herself for not thinking of it earlier.

She\'d been distracted by other things. Chir had been right, she
shouldn\'t have gone to the Zhadersil. Maybe then she would have thought
of it earlier.

There would be time to blame herself later. "I know where he is!" she
said abruptly, and to Zripob\'s great surprise. She carried on before he
had a chance to recover. "At least I think I do. Look, I already told
you about how I think he\'s in disguise. But what if he\'s also hiding
in plain sight? "

"You think he has a personal cloaking device? " Zripob asked. "Possibly,
but the power requirements--"

"I think he\'s joined the militia!" she continued, cutting him off.
"That would give him full access to everything! He\'d know all our
plans, and behind his mask he\'ll be laughing at us."

Zripob was silent for a long while, although several times he began to
speak only to stop before making any sound. It was clear he was
struggling with the ideas she\'d presented, but that at the same time he
was considering his objections before voicing them.

Finally he spoke. "I think you\'re right."

"Really?" Jen asked in surprise. Then quickly recovering her confidence
and continuing. "I\'m glad."

"That was a remarkable piece of reasoning," he said. "That would be a
very clever way to avoid being found, but how do we use the knowledge
against him?"

"Right," Jen said. "I have a plan."


