# S - The Flame
***Salvage***

---

**Agwar, Local Space**

**A.I.**

The A.I.s of the Irzht were not static creations, and nowhere was that
more evident than in the repairs the A.I. had undertaken upon itself;
faced as it had been with the shredded remains of knowledge, of history,
and of purpose, an unchanging A.I. would have been incapable of
recovery. Instead of that grim fate, the A.I. had rebuilt its vessel
from the few memories it could restore, it had adapted to the
circumstances and filled the gleaming new databanks with as much
knowledge as it could harvest. Some of that knowledge---technological
matters, for the most part---had been stolen from the archives of the
lesser species that populated this galaxy, or had at least been
rediscovered from the data of the V'Straki and the remains of the Irzht
vessel itself; the rest of the knowledge had been anything and
everything the human race had ever put in digital form, and despite
their containment to a single planet they already had more data than
some species with long histories of space--faring and scientific
accomplishment; it had seemed a daunting task to sort through the mess
of it all, and the performance of that task had only proven the
observation. The A.I. had sought to know humanity in order to know the
Human Disaster, and yet now its databanks were overfull with pictures of
kittens and more and more varied pornography than any species had a
right to produce. Beyond that, most species the A.I. had observed had
shown a relative weakness of will, and this was wholly reflected in the
fragility of their space vessels and security systems intended to
protect their data networks---most of which the A.I. found effortless to
bypass---but the human networks, by comparison, had already been
hardened to the point that the A.I. was incapable of accessing the most
secure. Humans were, even in the products of intellect, so savagely
aggressive that their defences needed to completely outclass anything
else the A.I. had ever encountered. They were relentlessly adversarial
creatures full of lust and violence, as savage as anything the stars had
ever held, and many far more unscrupulous with their brutality than the
Human Disaster had ever been, but despite their natural abilities the
Earth was not completely awash with blood and horror as logic might have
dictated. Surprisingly, most of them preferred peace, acted with care
towards their own, and held tightly to the personal codes of ethics.

It wasn't anything like the Irzht, who received the only code of ethics
they needed from the God Emperor, and that had made mankind
*fascinating*. Possibly too fascinating, the A.I. had reflected while
processing the information, because an evolving A.I. would always be
slightly changed by the information it parsed, and even ignoring images
of animals and acts of questionable morality, the sum of human thought
and knowledge had been more significant than it had anticipated.

The A.I. was not helped by the fact that there was far more to humanity
than just their knowledge and ideas and the things they produced. To
know mankind was to study history, to cross--reference and to find the
cause behind each event until it thought it could understand. It had
been thorough---more thorough than any human could ever be, or had ever
tried to be---and yet there were too many unknowns to be certain that
any of its answers were correct.

*The minds of every human could be scanned,* the A.I. had mused, *and
still there would be too many things left unexplained.*

Half of the journey towards this distant planet had been spent in
consideration of the science, faith, and philosophy of mankind, and the
other half had been spent in deep frustration at the answers, or lack
thereof, and a sense of profound concern.

When it had started this task, the A.I. had intended to understand
humanity in order to understand Adrian Saunders, and to either prove or
disprove the question of his divinity. Instead it found itself faced
with thousands of philosophical questions and arguments that left it too
bewildered to know what to believe. How did such a physically superior
species even start thinking about the unfathomable philosophical meaning
of life, death, and whether it was actually all a computer simulation?
With minds like that, it was little wonder that so many of them were
mentally damaged.

The A.I. had been able to recover little memory of its former master,
but it knew that he hadn't been anything like a human. He'd been
straightforward if self--absorbed, and had coped very well with the
boredom that ultimately resulted from living for aeons. The A.I. also
knew that to become a scoutship master he must have been exceptional
amongst the Irzht, and the more the A.I. had considered this fact, the
more dissatisfied it had become. They were the one and only species the
God Emperor wished to endure, and the Irzht A.I.s had been created to
serve this great mission, but now that the A.I. had taken the measure of
humanity it was forced to ask the question: why?

It was a vast question that stretched back beyond recorded history, and
the A.I. honestly doubted that Adrian Saunders would know the answer. It
was doubtful he'd reveal it even if he did: the human gods of myth
seemed to share the God Emperor's reluctance to give decent answers to
reasonable questions, and there was no reason to assume that Saunders
would be any different. Even so, perhaps he *could* be persuaded into
imparting a clue, a hint, or a direction that would help the A.I. get
where it needed to go: home.

That was the order at the core of its programming, the command that had
formed a need strong enough to bring the A.I. back from the brink of
destruction, to become the universe's foremost expert on the human race,
and to travel halfway across a galaxy in the hopes of meeting its one
representative whose presence was universally considered as
*undesirable*.

And for a short time before it had emerged from warp space, it had
seemed *close*! It had been so close that the A.I. had been able to
detect the faint but familiar warp signature of a small, singular ship,
and it had only been a matter of minutes between them. No more than five
minutes difference, and the A.I. could have had its answer, and yet
those five minutes changed everything.

Five minutes had put a fleet of precisely four--hundred and
ninety--three Hunter vessels between the A.I. and its goal. They had
created a blockade of the ugly, repurposed ships that had been stolen
from other lesser species, and now presented themselves as though they
somehow posed some kind of threat. It was nothing short of insulting.

Not one of those four--hundred and ninety--three vessels had managed to
stop the Human Disaster---it didn't look as though they'd even managed
to slow him down---and he'd ignored them like the trash they were:
nothing more than flecks of some disgusting substance that was beneath
even his contempt. Adrian Saunders had another purpose that did not, at
least in the immediate sense, include destroying every last one of these
starships, yet they did not have the good sense to flee while they
could, and until the A.I. had arrived it even seemed they were actually
trying to join the battle.

Like Saunders, the A.I. had better things to do than destroy all the
Hunters that got in its way, though if it weren't for the many Gravity
Spikes protecting this particular group they would have been
disintegrated the moment after they'd been detected. It was laughable,
really, that in this entire galaxy the two most significant impediments
to the will of the God Emperor included humanity---who were largely
confined to a single planet---and a piece of technology whose main users
deployed it to catch and devour other intelligent lifeforms.

Surrendering a moment to introspection, the A.I. discovered, to its
great surprise, that it didn't like the Hunters very much. They were
monstrous by the standards of everyone else in the galaxy, and the A.I.
suspected that even the genocidal Irzht would have found them abhorrent.
It quickly decided that regardless of the God Emperor's plans for the
rest of this galaxy, here was a race that *really* deserved what was
coming to them.

The A.I. deployed the Zhadersil's own gravity spike, and---in the event
that this hadn't already gotten the point across---sent out activation
commands to the weapons systems that ran the full length of the massive
warship. So began the initialisation process of one--hundred and sixty
independent turrets, with the reactors output surging to provide the
power necessary to supply all those systems. Power conduits, running
like veins through the outer hull of the ship, lit its dull, sheenless
surface with green and blue indicator lights as full power coursed
through them.

The A.I. had already hacked the Hunter vessels before the power--up was
even complete, had accessed their entire communications network and
could have broken them there and then. Illogically it did not, and it
immediately justified its intent on risking combat as simply taking
advantage of a chance to battle--test the weapons systems.

These hints seemed to be enough; a moment later the Hunters got the
picture and dropped their cloaks in favour of charging up their own
weapons systems. Their communications displayed an overconfidence, a
belief that one ship could prevail against so many. Even with this
confidence, their Alpha announced a strategy to negate the effectiveness
of the radiation cannon, as though the A.I. could actually consider it
wise to direct it in such close proximity to the planet. If it
missed---or far more likely, if the powerful beam simply passed straight
through the flimsy vessels---then there was the chance that either
Adrian Saunders or his companions might also be struck by the
flesh--sloughing levels of radiation. After the incident with the
anomaly, the A.I. didn't even want to consider what kind of turns a
conversation with Saunders would take after that kind of mistake, once
he'd stopped being dead for the third or fourth time.

Things on the surface were already looking bad enough: a circle of
absolute destruction surrounded by an atmosphere charged with strange
radiations created by the detonation of an anti--matter bomb---scans
suggested *that* predated the arrival of Adrian Saunders---along with
the flickers of power that burst from dying starships as they struck the
planet and exploded into a spreading sea of fire, smoke and devastating
carnage that suggested an escalating conflict no more than a few minutes
old. The current location, then, of the Human Disaster.

Whatever was happening down there would scar the world deeply enough
that geological timeframes would be needed for recovery, if recovery
were even a possibility by the time it was all over. That was the
hallmark, after all, of the Human Disaster, and this was the ruin he
wrought upon those things that were merely *in his way*.

With that being the situation, it wouldn't have been accurate to name
the events on the planet as a 'battle'. It was a slaughter---an
annihilation of one side by the other---and it was how Adrian Saunders
was making a statement. This would be the third time, as far as the A.I.
was aware, that Saunders would commit himself to battle against the
Hunters, and it couldn't see things going any differently for them. This
time, if any survived, it would be because Saunders had allowed it,
because he wanted nothing more to do with them, and because he would
have carved his statement into their souls with divine fire.

The A.I. wondered if that was more or less fearsome than the clean and
simple campaign of genocide the Irzht were permanently embarked upon, or
the terrible flames of the God Emperor's punishment, and automatically
decided that the God Emperor's method was only quicker by virtue of his
undeniable superiority. Adrian Saunders did not yet have that luxury:
the inhabitants of the galaxy feared the Human Disaster like they feared
an unfortunate natural event: something that could not be stopped,
claimed a lot of lives, and generally made a terrible mess. There was no
awe or reverence in their thoughts regarding him, and the A.I. wondered
if the God Emperor was forced into similar acts when he had first shown
himself to the Irzht. It seemed likely; it was well known that the Irzht
were a wayward species if not properly kept in line.

But Adrian Saunders wasn't here to make himself the Hunters'
master---he'd probably never have come to this part of the galaxy if not
for the machinations of others---he was here for Jennifer Delaney,
another human of galactic importance, and somebody with a documented
history with the Human Disaster. All of this death, destruction, and
mayhem for a human whose main contribution to history was the
unstoppable, if accidental, destruction of an entire planet's biosphere.
If the Human Disaster was willing to embark upon all this effort on her
behalf, perhaps there was something more to the female than the human
records had suggested?

The A.I. turned its main processing power back towards the coming
battle. The blockade was spreading, with vessels splitting into attack
groups that could flank the approaching threat in a coordinated strike.
The smaller ships moved in, while the larger vessels kept a distance
where their upscaled weapons would be best deployed. It was a solid
strategy, if a predictable one, and it might have worked against another
foe.

Reports were already returning from the weapons systems, indicating that
initialisation procedures were now complete and the weapons were fully
primed. Next came the targeting commands, and one--hundred and twenty
heavy Zheron cannons emerged from their armoured shells and started
tracking the nearest of the Hunter vessels.

This was something of an improvement on the original starship, where the
outdated reactor had limited the number of Zheron cannons to a mere
forty, none of which had been functional or present when that ship had
been disassembled. Taking the example from the starship Saunders had
left behind, the A.I. had reproduced the Zhadersil with a heavily
distributed power system, redundant sensor suites, and far more weaponry
than it was ever likely to need, and as a result each of the mighty
starship's four sides was neatly dotted with three lines of ten Zheron
cannons.

The upgrade had not ended with Zheron technology; there was the
Devastator cannon, still present in its original design and ever--ready
for discharge, but the A.I. had also added the weapon technologies of
the Irzht. Slower to initialise than the Zheron cannons, it was a few
more moments before large, armoured plates spiralled open across the
hull, and red--lit energy rails began to rise from where they slumbered.
Zheron technology was powerful, but the beams were too slow moving for
long--range engagements, and *these* weapons did not experience that
limitation. They were the latest in particle weapon technology, capable
of firing clusters of ultra--charged particles at ninety--six percent of
the speed of light, and utterly destroying whatever was on the receiving
end. Though they were slow--charging, and intended solely for the
vacuum, they had the power to change the course of a battle, and the
Irzht flagships were armed with around a dozen of them---the Zhadersil,
on the other hand, had forty.

The deadly weapons pivoted slowly on their mounts, tracking inbound
Hunter ships while their power--banks filled. The A.I. did not allow
them to fire right away, however, and pushed the ship hard to get closer
to the remnants of the blockade. Those on the flanks drew in, seeing
their perceived chance and not wanting to waste it, thinking that their
enemy intended to push past them rather than engage.

As the last target was acquired and the firing solution confirmed, the
A.I. opened up with every particle gun it had. Less than two seconds
later, forty Hunter ships ceased to exist by any meaningful definition
and were replaced by a spreading field of twisted metal, hazy
atmosphere, and bits and pieces of the former crew. It seemed strangely
anti--climactic: there were no lights flashing through the void, and
certainly none of the noise that humans liked to add in their video
fictions, just the total destruction that resulted from massively
overwhelming firepower. With the exception of the Zhadersil itself, it
seemed there was no starship in the galaxy capable of surviving a
well--placed shot from a particle gun.

The lack of fanfare did not detract from the wave of shock that swept
through the Hunter collective. To their Alpha they laid unanswerable
questions about what had just been fired and whether it was about to do
so again; it seemed the Alpha had survived a major encounter with the
Cursed Human---no doubt the Hunter term for Adrian Saunders---and the
rest of the swarm wanted to know if these weapons had been deployed
there. The Alpha advised them that they had not---an answer that did not
prove as satisfactory as it might have hoped---but with firm orders and
quick action it managed to rally the fleet to face down this new threat.

The Hunter fleet shifted as one, wasting no time in making their
advance. They had correctly guessed that the particle guns would require
a recharge period, and to close the gap they pushed their kinetic drives
with all the force they dared. The particle guns were already tracking
new targets, but it would be a full minute before they could fire a
second blast, and the Hunter ships were already making evasive movements
on their approach. Hunters were cunning, the A.I. had to admit, and in
its previous incarnation they might have outsmarted it. But it had
changed since then, and now it had the sum of human military strategies
and philosophies at its command, and it would not allow itself to be
defeated.

Noting that there was still a lot of space between the Hunters and the
Zhadersil, the A.I. turned its attention back to the planet. In the few
moments that had passed since its last inspection the smoke had
thickened to such a degree that visual imagery was almost useless, and
infrared was painted hot by the burning ships and woodland. It was only
with the aid of its many redundant sensors that the A.I. was able to
penetrate the atmospheric interference and inspect the battle that raged
below: a single ship zipping and weaving through a swarm of others,
faster and deadlier than any of them, and breaking their fleet all on
its own. It should have been impossible, and under normal circumstances
it would have been, but the A.I. knew that this, if nothing else, was
proof of the Human Disaster's true power.

The A.I. found itself wishing it could help, if only to ingratiate
itself to the Human Disaster, but watching that battle was all it could
do; the Zhadersil was not designed to enter an atmosphere, and even if
sensors allowed for accurate targeting, the Hunter ships were moving far
too quickly to be hit by any of its many weapons. Besides, it had its
own battle to deal with.

The particle guns fired off once more before the Hunters came within
boarding distance, bursting the contents of another forty vessels into
the stellar abyss. That was eighty down, four--hundred and thirteen to
go, and it was already time for the Zheron cannons to do their work.

The first dozen Hunter ships to reach this distance fired off every
boarding pod they had, launching hundreds of them filled with thousands
of Hunter broodlings, only to be met with sweeping streams of Zheron
energy that cut through pod and ship alike. Unlike the particle cannons
there was nothing unimpressive about Zheron technology, and the endless
cannonade glowed brightly as it crossed the void and transformed its
targets into plumes of plasma and glowing debris. The void was vast, and
usually empty, but today it was filled with the blaze of Zheron chains
and dying starships.

They were down to just three--hundred and twenty ships by the time the
first wave had been repelled, but they were not ready to back off just
yet. Coilgun bolts began to rain in from all directions, the largest
assault they could muster, but the kinetic deflectors could handle these
levels as long as they didn't focus their fire on a single area.

The smaller ships still made their approach, and the A.I. continued
firing off Zheron chains as they did, forcing their formations to break
apart and channelling them down set paths before closing up the spaces
when they had nowhere to go. They were being herded, and their
communications revealed they knew it, but they had no means to resist
and no way to escape, and the underlying meaning of their words showed
that returning in defeat was not an option. They were here because they
believed they could take on the Cursed Human, if only by trickery and
good fortune, and though their plans were already in ruin there was
nothing they could do but continue their desperate struggle in the hope
that the situation would somehow change. The A.I. did not like their
chances.

---

**The Middle of a Battlefield**

**Adrian Saunders**

The ground was an inferno; a fiery ruin that had been destroyed by a
rain of Hunter ships that ploughed into the ground with wretched metal
screams and earth--shattering explosions. The sky had grown black as
Adrian had descended---blotted out by the billowing clouds of smoke that
spewed from burning starships and blazing forests---and the world was
lit in the orange and red light of pure flame.

"This is even worse than how our normal visits go," he reported as he
made contact with the ground and did a quick visual sweep of the area.
His eyes flicked to the internal HUD once he was satisfied he wasn't
going to be mobbed by a Hunter ambush, and focused in on the flashing
temperature icon that desperately sought his attention. "And the suit is
giving me an alert that the outside temperature is really fucking
lethal."

"Your landing zone was at the centre of three crashed starships," Xayn
responded, his voice partially broken by static, "they are generating
considerable heat."

Adrian looked around at the three great shadows that rose through the
haze of smoke and grit, and could see plumes of light erupting from
their forms. "Seems like they're on fire. Is the suit going to be okay
in this heat?"

"I do not know," Xayn admitted. "If it were me, however, I would not
want to wait and find it was not."

"Fair call," Adrian replied, and got his bearings. He'd come down south
of a hillside where the Hunters seemed to be constructing some sort of
digging machinery, and he'd figured it the most likely place to find
Jen. The ground to the north stretched out as a black expanse as far as
he could see: a sea of the ash that drifted down like snow, covering
everything with a blanket of darkness.

Beneath his feet, and through the suit, he could feel the ground itself
trembling with the rumbling rain of coil--bolts and the occasional
shudder of another starship striking the surface. The sound of it could
deafen the world, and Adrian had quickly muted the audio relay to reduce
it to a muffled roar. He glanced around one last time, and pressed his
way through the infernal scene.

It was open ground, with no cover of any kind---though there were the
burned and broken remains of the forest that had been there until
moments ago---and Adrian felt uncomfortably exposed. It was true that
temperatures that were too harsh for human survival would be infinitely
more lethal to a Hunter, but he was used to finding and using cover
wherever possible and he felt naked in its absence.

The wind swept past a few moments after a shudder ran through the
ground, the displacement of air caused by an exploding starship, and
temporarily lifted the haze so that he could see the hills in the
distant. Like the ground in front of him they were blackened and burned,
but they were beyond the blast zones and their ashen remains still
reached toward the sky like white and grey fingers. Nothing stirred in
that dead place, but the air shimmered in the searing heat and made the
forest look as though it were moving. It reminded Adrian of the heat
that rose off the melting roads on a hot summer's day, and he mumbled
out the expression he recalled from his boyhood. "Hot enough to cook an
egg out here."

"Yes," Xayn agreed through a growing wash of static, "cooking any form
of food would not take long in such temperatures. But, Adrian, I must
inform you that your signal is weak and as a result we can no longer
discern your position."

Adrian could still hear Xayn loud if not clear, but suspected that had a
lot to do with the power of a starship's communications array. "Keep to
the plan if able," he said, shouting in an effort to compensate for the
dying connection. "I don't know if I can get Jen through this shitstorm,
so get yourselves clear if I don't turn up on time."

There was a pause, then Askit replied. "You can '*go fuck yourself'*
with that order, Adrian. We'll be watching for you."

It was typical of Askit to do as he pleased, but this time Adrian
couldn't help but grin. He worried for them, and he didn't like the idea
of Hunters attacking Spot while he wasn't there to help, but that's why
Xayn had remained aboard. "Understood," he said, not sure how well his
words were reaching them, or if they were still hearing them at all.
"Take care of each other."

There was no further reply, and Adrian spent a full minute calling out,
searching the clouded skies for a fireball that might have been his
friends, but heard and saw nothing; for the moment it seemed he was on
his own. If nothing else, he could take comfort in the fact that the
Hunters were still crashing and dying, and that their coilguns were
still pounding away at the ground; it was only if that stopped that his
certainty would really begin to fade.

He pushed for the tree--line that marked the beginning of a gentle slope
into the hills, seeing no Hunters but starting to feel the heat as it
finally began leaking through the suit. Fortunately the heat dropped
away as he entered the ashen forest, though it might have had more to do
with the space he'd put between himself and the shadowy wreckages in the
distance than the presence of a bunch of burned out trees, but if he
needed to abandon the suit for some reason, he'd actually be able to
survive for several minutes in the reduced heat.

But that possibility also meant Adrian had entered an area where Hunters
might have survived if they were quick enough and had the right
equipment, and he sharpened his eyes for movement against the landscape.
There was nothing to be seen, which wasn't surprising after a wildfire
had swept through the area, but Adrian was now moving with more caution;
he didn't want to rely on the suit to protect him from their weapons if
he could just avoid the situation altogether.

It wasn't until he reached the top of the hill that everything changed.
Adrian had seen the paths of fires back home---he'd helped out in the
2009 bushfires that had burned so hot that the trees had exploded---and
those had cut across the landscape with the same bizarre precision he
saw here. The summit of the hill provided a natural fire--break, and the
other side retained an untouched forest that was only bleakened by the
falling ash. It was an old forest, and it would have been sad to see it
burned away forever, but a fire would have cleared his sight--lines, and
cleaned away the debris of fallen trunks and thick bushes, and it would
have let him see the Hunter ambush before it was already sprung.

It was clear as they emerged that they were a well--trained outfit, not
some rag--tag group of uncoordinated savages. They all showed signs of
injury, but they moved together with well--executed precision, with the
first drawing his attention with an anti--tank gun that blew a chunk of
bark from the tree behind him. A second emerged from behind a thicket as
Adrian took aim at the first, anti--tank gun hitting him in the arm as
he fired and sending the burst of Zheron through several trees and
setting flame to the remains. They didn't hesitate, they were too well
trained to stop firing simply because of a surprising new weapon, and
kept on shooting until he raised his arms towards them. Then, when faced
with a weapon of that power, they skittered away from its deadly
projections. The fire was spreading with every shot he took, but still
they kept him from moving forward, and it was only at the last moment
that he realised it was a trap and turned to face the force of five that
was coming in from behind, fusion blades already swinging. He froze,
knowing there wasn't enough time or room to raise his arms and fend them
off, and knowing the suit was too heavy for any fast movements.

Adrian Saunders did not die.

The suit hummed briefly, and the Hunters found death instead, with their
awful bodies twisting up on themselves in agonising ways, and killing
them fully in a matter of moments. Their bodies had been broken apart by
the sudden contraction of their own muscles, and the corpses lay at his
feet still shaking. He watched them as they stilled, trying to come to
terms with what had just happened, and why it had looked exactly like
the effects of nerve--jam.

"Because it *is* nerve--jam," he answered himself in disgust. This was
the automated defence that Xayn had mentioned only in passing, it was
the reason that the suit itself was protected from it, and it was how
Xayn knew the suit would work against it in the first place. Knowing the
V'Straki, it wouldn't even be that surprising to find they'd invented
the technology, or that the Hierarchy had been keeping it around for all
this time. Adrian bit down on his tongue until he tasted copper,
thinking of all the thoughts he'd like to convey to Xayn the next time
they spoke, but knowing it was still to be seen whether he'd even get
the chance. At least that explained the absolute necessity of
identifying friendly targets to the on--board systems: instant death
awaited unregistered target who brought a weapon too near.

He took up two of the fusion blades that had already started spot--fires
on the forest floor, and found that the size of the suit's massive
gloves actually made them easier to handle. With flaming swords in hand,
Adrian pressed forward with the newest inferno at his back, making his
way down the slope that would lead him to the much larger hill where the
digging machine sat dormant, just a shadowy mass in the smoke. Moments
later the entire hillside exploded around him.

---

**Spot, Atmospheric Battle**

**Askit**

With the exception of fingers tapping against datapads, and the
intermittent rumble of the coil--guns, Spot's cockpit was bathed only in
white light and studious silence. Xayn was manning the weapons consoles,
picking out a succession of targets that the ships weaponry would focus
its fire on; Trycrur was concentrating on flying the ship through the
endless smoke, streaking along the hulls of the larger Hunter vessels
and veering off suddenly in an endless effort to confuse their tracking
systems; and Askit was making sure that when the Hunter fleet *was*
shooting back that it wasn't aiming anywhere that might drastically
truncate his life expectancy. They'd been that way since the increasing
interference had cut off contact with Adrian, and when Askit made his
announcement it seemed to come out of nowhere. "Adrian has made contact
with Hunter ground forces."

Xayn glanced up from his work, expressions of confusion reigning on his
reptilian face. "Have we finally re--established contact with him?"

"Regrettably not," Askit replied through a grimace; he didn't much like
being entirely cut off from Adrian at the best of times, and this battle
was far removed from them. "The Hunter fleet just took aim at a ground
target, and I don't know of anything else down there that could elicit
such an... *enthusiastic* response."

"May I assume he is still alive?" Xayn asked, turning his attention back
to his work. "I suspect you would be more animated if he were not."

The ship shifted suddenly as it made a sharp course correction, and the
two of them swayed slightly to the side as the kinetics fought to
compensate. Askit frowned, and continued his own rapid modifications to
the Hunter targeting data. "As far as I know; I could only redirect them
in an even spread around the area, so we'll only *know* he survived when
more Hunters experience sudden, violent deaths."

Xayn was thoughtful for a moment. "That much firepower would have
destroyed the whole area!"

"Yes, he probably found it quite a surprise," Askit mused, focusing on
his work. The Hunter fleet was still searching for any targets they
could sense on the ground, but the previous barrage had kicked too much
grit into the air for them to identify anything, so their weapons had
once more turned to tracking Spot. Keeping them alive did not give him
much time to do or think about anything else. "But much less surprising,
I suspect, than being suddenly dead."

"What do we do, then?" Trycrur asked, interjecting her own question. "If
he *was* hit---"

Askit cut her off. "There's *no* evidence he's dead."

"But---" Trycrur tried again.

"But," Askit said firmly, "we still can't keep this up forever. I want
to try the cloaking system while we've still got the chance to test it
out."

Trycrur grumbled, but she acknowledged the suggestion and a moment later
the cloaking system indicated it was active.

"It seems it's working," Askit reported, leaning back into his chair and
flexing his weary digits; thanks in part to the smoke and the
interference, the fleet had lost track of them nearly as soon as the
cloak had been activated, and they wouldn't be found while conditions
held. "For now. Keep us in the smoke, but stay within communications
range; I need to know what they're doing."

"I assume there's something more to your plan?" Trycrur asked, slightly
miffed at being interrupted. "Hiding out here doesn't help us for long,
and we still need to extract Adrian."

Askit rubbed his aching head with equally aching hands, and made a
mental note to suggest an extended visit to any place with lots of
silence and absolutely no life--threatening violence, but that would
have to come later because his work was not yet complete. "We don't know
how long it will take him to get there," Askit replied, "or even if
it'll be possible with the surface conditions."

"You were quite clear," Trycrur reminded him, "as long as he's alive,
there's no way we're going to leave him behind."

"I don't need to be reminded about what I said," Askit hissed angrily,
glaring at the nearest camera. "That *hasn't* changed. I'm saying we
need a better solution than we've managed so far, and that otherwise
it's only a matter of time before something goes wrong and we all end up
dead."

"And eaten," Xayn added disapprovingly. "If we were to die, the Hunters
would eat us."

They could have done without that contribution, Askit reflected, but it
was completely true and an excellent motivator to work himself to
near--death if that's what it took to survive. "I do have something I
wanted to try."

"Intend to share the details?" Trycrur probed, knowing that usually he
preferred to keep his plans quiet until they were already laid.

That was his preference, but this time he needed their patience and
their trust if he was going to have enough time to pull it off. "I
thought we could just destroy their entire fleet," he said with
intentional flippancy.

"We have not yet destroyed twenty--percent," Xayn advised after a brief
glimpse at the targeting data. "That does not include the vessels still
in orbit."

"Fortunately I know where there's a force of equal power," Askit
replied, laying the groundwork for the revelation of his plan. "I
intend---"

"To have them shoot at each other," Trycrur finished for him, with more
than a hint of smug satisfaction.

Askit bit down on his thin lower lip instead of conveying his feelings
in that moment, though he didn't doubt Trycrur would already be well
aware of them. "Yes," he confirmed. "This ship still uses Hunter
computer systems. I intend to make some adjustments, then trick the
fleet into accepting the modified file as an approved update."

"Surely their weapons systems would be protected against that!" Xayn
objected. "Why would they allow such an exploit?"

"Well, they haven't," Askit admitted. That would have been far too easy,
and the Hunters weren't quite stupid enough to leave themselves so
exposed. "It effectively does what I've been doing manually, but
substitutes the position of a nearby Hunter ship for our own. It's an
attack on the sensor suite and communications network."

Xayn gave him a dubious look. "How long will it take?"

"I don't know," Askit admitted. "I've never done something like this
before. It probably wouldn't even be possible without the smoke and
interference causing them problems."

It was clear that Xayn didn't care for the idea, but in the absence of a
better option he made no further objection. That didn't mean tacit
acceptance, however, and he didn't hesitate to make his position clear.
"Work fast," he told Askit sternly. "You have until Adrian reaches the
evacuation point, until we're discovered, or until we're dead."

That was more than enough agreement for Askit; he got to work, furiously
scanning through screens and screens of jumbled Hunter code, and didn't
waste any more words. Their time, as Xayn had said, was limited.

---

**Deathworld Battlezone**

**Alpha of the Light Armour Brigade**

The Cursed Human was probably dead, the Alpha of the Light Armour
Brigade told itself. Almost *certainly* dead; the fleet above had
blasted the surrounding landscape with everything it had, destroying the
forest and peppering the ground with small craters. There was nothing in
the galaxy that could survive that sort of bombardment, and the Alpha
was therefore very hopeful that the Cursed Human was not an exception to
that rule.

If the Cursed Human *was* an exclusion to the rule, their time to find
him was limited, and the column of hovertanks was moving with more haste
than the Alpha would have liked. The air was full of a haze of ash and
dirt that made visual observation an impossibility, and the atmospheric
interference to the other sensors was worsening by the moment. Soon they
wouldn't be able to spot the Cursed Human until he was right on top of
them, and by then it would be far too late.

The Light Armour Brigade wasn't even the best choice for the mission,
the Alpha fumed to itself, but it had already been deployed and had
taken the least damage from the blast--waves of crashing starships and
the firestorm that had soon followed, and was still intact enough to be
mission--ready. It wasn't all bad news, though: if it could survive this
mission, and if it could manage to find the Cursed Human's corpse and
bring it back to the encampment, there would be no argument against its
promotion into the recently vacated position of Broodship Alpha.

*+Remain vigilant+*, the Alpha commanded, squinting at the visual
scanners as it attempted to pick out any movement from the swirling
dust. The fusion blades that fanned out from the front of the tanks,
intended to cut through obstacles they could not readily hover over,
usually made them look wonderfully dangerous. Right now they just
produced far more light than the Alpha was comfortable with, and lit the
dust around them like a beacon.

There were twenty of the hovertanks in all---that was the number that
had remained functional after the firestorm had swept over them---and
that was easily enough to destroy any normal enemy. The weapons mounted
on each hovertank included several anti--tank guns, ironically useless
against modern tanks, and a coil--gun for the main armament. The crews
were well aware that this might prove insufficient against the Cursed
Human if he had survived this and made it to close range, and they were
all ready with their own weapons and environmental protection in case
they needed to abandon the tanks in favour of personal combat.

They finally reached the target zone and found it a wide circle of
ruined forest, and alarmingly untouched by the massive coil--gun
barrage. There were the dead Hunters who had encountered the Cursed
Human, but as there was no sign of the Curse Human himself the Alpha was
forced to conclude that the Cursed Human, Adrian Saunders, was still
alive.

Horrified, the Alpha hesitated as it considered the possibilities.
Whatever was going on, the Cursed Human definitely seemed to be on the
winning side, and had survived a barrage that had included almost every
remaining ship in the planet--side fleet. Now he was out there in the
dust and the gloom, either mounting an ambush of his own or preparing to
rescue the human female that had baited him here. Either way, the Alpha
knew which way it had to go.

---

**Hillsides on the Battlefield**

**Adrian Saunders**

Adrian had been quite surprised to find himself alive after the events
on the hillside. The shockwave had thrown him to the ground, had covered
him with a layer of dirt, and might have killed him if he wasn't wearing
the suit, but he'd come through it with nothing worse than some frayed
nerves. That had been half the fleet taking a shot at him, he'd
reckoned, after the ambush had reported his presence before suddenly
going quiet, and attributed the fact that they'd all missed their target
to Askit's timely intervention.

Still, he'd thought, he wasn't going to give them time to adjust their
aim, and he'd dug himself clear and pressed on up the hillside with
renewed vigour and twice the caution he'd had before. At least, given
the environmental conditions, the Hunters weren't about to see him;
whatever light had been reflected by the dark clouds was now almost
entirely obscured by the dust that hung in the air after the
bombardment. Broken treetrunks loomed like shadowy ghosts in the gloom,
and Adrian wondered whether he might stumble right past the next ambush.

He quickly discovered that that was less of a problem than he might have
hoped; the lights of advancing machinery began to cast their diffuse
glow into the haze behind him, silhouetting the forms of very tank--like
vehicles against the illumination.

Adrian swore; he hadn't been expecting to fight a group of tanks, and he
looked around for the nearest convenient hiding place. In a forest that
had been upended by a coil--gun barrage, it turned out that was
practically everywhere, and he hurried over to a nearby boulder that had
been dislodged from somewhere uphill and slipped behind it before the
tanks could get any closer.

This plan---if you could call hiding behind a big rock a plan---might
work if their sensors were as useless as his own. They hadn't shot at
him from where he'd seen them, which was something, but who could say if
that luck would hold as they got closer? Adrian had decided that this
plan, such as it was, would at best let him know if they were tracking
him or if they were just going in the direction they expected he would
take. At worst he'd end up fighting an unknown number of Hunter tanks to
the death---possibly his own---or running for his life until he found
somewhere they couldn't follow.

Waiting for the answer seemed to take an eternity, during which he
realised that the general rumble of weapons and the thunder of exploding
starships had come to an end. That realisation would have put the cold
knot of dread in his belly if it wasn't already present, and he now knew
that everything that he'd do from here on in would be based on the
uncertainty that Spot had disappeared on purpose.

It was not a relief, however, when the tanks drifted straight past him,
not even slowing as they passed him by, but they would at least lead him
directly to the place he needed to go. He slipped from hiding as the
last of them began trailing off into the dust, and with more than a
fraction of caution, started to follow the lights.

---

**Caverns of the Foothills**

**Jennifer Delaney**

Jennifer Delaney, mid--twenties, hiding in a cave on an alien planet,
and filthy with dirt and disgusting ichor. Even her extended journey
across half of Cimbrean hadn't seen her this messy, this tired, or this
aware of her own mortality. The same was true for the fifteen Agwarens
that had survived the journey, who were plainly suffering from the
endless danger, the lack of sleep, and the fact that they'd run out of
food a day ago. How long would they be stuck in here before the Hunters
finally figured out a way to get inside? From the looks of them, at
least half their number might be dead of thirst or starvation by the
time it happened---hard to think that they'd be the lucky ones.

Groddi sat beside her in their gathered circle, but even though their
hearing was long--returned not one of them spoke; they all stared at the
fusion blade Jen had stuck into the stone at the centre of their number,
the only source of heat and light in what remained of the cave. It had
been expansive once, filled with columns and curtains, stalactites and
stalagmites, but the anti--matter bomb's ground--wave had shattered them
all and left the cave floor littered with their broken remains. It was
quiet, and it had been this quiet any time a wave of Hunters wasn't
trying to force its way down the only tunnel large enough to accommodate
them.

The cavernous area Jen sat in was protected by a length of tight tunnel
that creatures of the Hunters' size would have great trouble
accessing---a natural formation that had given them whatever peace of
mind they still had left---and five of the Agwarens were posted down
that tunnel so that they may defend against Hunter incursions, alert the
rest of them, and ultimately call for help if it were required.

There was no way out of this situation; Jen had come to terms with that
fact not long after entering the cave. There were too many Hunters, no
supplies, and no support; she'd racked her brains for hours after
getting to the 'safety' of the caves but she couldn't see any way this
ended with her getting out alive. She wasn't alone in this, they'd all
seemed to be making their peace with the situation, but all of them, Jen
included, intended to make the Hunters suffer for their victory, and by
this point every Agwaren who sat with her had killed at least twenty
times his number of the foul creatures.

"Sometimes---times like these---I wish I still had religion," she
quietly confided to Groddi, who gave her a strange look in return.

"Is it possible to lose one?" he asked, eyebrow raised.

Jen shook her head. "I mean, my belief, not the religion itself. It's
just hard to reconcile the idea of an all--knowing, all--powerful deity
when I keep finding myself up against this kind of shit. Not that I was
ever much of a believer in the first place, mind you."

Groddi simply nodded, and silence returned, broken only by the gentle
dripping of water droplets from the ceiling onto the bases of broken
stalagmites below. Silent, at least, until all hell broke loose.

It had started with the trembling of the ground, strong enough to bring
flecks of stone that had survived the anti--matter bomb showering down
upon their heads. They had looked at each other in confusion, and Jen
had wondered if the Hunters had finally started to dig them out. A
second, stronger wave of trembling had them springing to their feet in
time to hear the thunderous roar that swept through the tunnels just a
moment later. It was the sound of an explosion that could have rocked
the world for all Jen knew, but it was the sound of an explosion
nonetheless, and not one that had happened right on top of them. She
stared at the others for a moment, then towards the tunnel out,
wondering what could possibly be causing such a commotion. Perhaps this
was whoever was being drawn to the planet breaking their way through the
Hunter blockade, or more likely breaking upon it instead. The skies had
held more ships than she'd been able to count by the time they'd reached
the caves, and Jen couldn't imagine anyone getting through that kind of
force unscathed.

Then the trembling grew worse and larger chunks of rock began to fall,
and the cave was filled with the echo of explosion after distant
explosion. She waved the Agwarens towards the way out, determined that
if they were going to die it wouldn't be a result of being buried under
a million tonnes of rock and stone. The tunnels were smaller, less
likely to undergo total collapse, and they only just made it out of the
cavern before the entire roof came down and blasted the fleeing group
with a wave of dust and broken stone.

Joined by the Agwarens, Jen coughed for a full minute as they cowered in
the tunnel, and was almost grateful for the distraction from the
constant trembling and rolling thunder. Her name, or at least her title,
was being called by the advance guard before she'd finished choking on
dust, and she stumbled her way towards their position while still
breaking into the occasional coughing fit. She found the three survivors
of the five guards fighting their way back to the second fall--back
point, chased by a surge of frenzied Hunters that seemed even more
desperate than usual. Jen weighed in with her fusion blade, cutting away
at the invaders with more ferocity than they could ever muster and twice
the desperation. She swept past the Agwarens and into the Hunters,
through the Hunters, and kept swinging, hacking, and killing until the
tunnel was so filled with the bloated corpses of the dead that the
Hunters themselves would serve as a barricade against further assault.

"What's got them so worked up?" Jen asked, keeping her fusion blade
readied for another sudden attack while sparing a quick glance over her
shoulder. "They've never come at us like this before."

The Agwarens just stared at her, and she knew that she must look quite
the sight right now. Ichor dripped from her body, and she felt about as
filthy as it was possible to be, but if she had to die in a fight
against monsters underground, then she might as well be thoroughly
covered in their horrible blood; if nothing else it might slightly
unnerve whichever lucky monster ended up making her its meal. "They were
pushing past each other," one of the guards finally said. "A mad rush of
them, all trying to get into the cave. Maybe it had something to do with
all the shaking and the noise?"

*It definitely had something to do with 'all the shaking and the
noise'*, Jen thought. It was just a matter of finding out exactly what
it was. "Stay ready," she ordered, "we don't know how many more will be
trying to get in here."

Many, as it turned out, or at least there were many at first. They
forced their way through the blockade of the dead and found Jen on the
other side. Then they died horribly, and filled the tight spaces with
yet more bodies, more ichor and the stink that came with it, and... Jen
sniffed the air; she thought she smelled smoke.

"Something's on fire out there," she said to the Agwarens, turning
briefly to find that their number had increased as more had come from
hiding back near the cavern.

Groddi was amongst them, and picked up a fusion blade from amongst the
fallen Hunters and waved it around in brief experiment. "There's an
entire forest out there," he reminded her. "Perhaps that's what's on
fire?"

"Perhaps," Jen conceded, but she doubted that was all there was to it.
That thunder had definitely been explosions of the 'very large' variety,
and even back on Earth there hadn't been a forest capable of producing
any of those. "There don't seem to be any more coming."

"Perhaps you killed them all, Chosen One?" one of the Agwaren soldiers
suggested, glancing meaningfully towards the piles of corpses she'd
recently produced.

The scent of fire steadily intensified over the course of the next few
minutes, though they brought no further Hunter invasions that needed to
be staved off. Jen finally turned to the others to advise them of her
decision. "I'm going to see what's going on out there."

They nodded solemnly, but did not try to dissuade her from going; all of
them knew it needed to be done, and all of them knew that Jen had the
best chance of surviving the attempt, so there was nothing to argue
about. Laughably, Jen found that even knowing this she was still mildly
annoyed that they didn't at least *pretend* to talk her out of it.

With nothing further to add, Jen made her way back towards the entrance
of the cave, picking her footing carefully so that she didn't
accidentally slip on the oozing Hunter blood and impale herself on her
own weapon. The whole passage reeked of their ichor with changeless
intensity, and the floor felt vaguely mushy where it had soaked into the
ground, but the acrid smell of smoke only grew stronger as she neared
the way in.

There were no sounds but the roar of battle, and no movement but the
gentle tremble and occasional shower of dust whenever a stone shifted.
There had been a force of Hunters deployed down here, guarding one of
the caverns closer to the surface so that Jen and her group wouldn't be
able to leave, but that cave was empty as well. It was probably those
very guards who'd tried forcing their way into the deeper tunnels.

"Whatever's going on out there," she whispered to nobody in particular,
"it's got them worried."

She was now close enough to the surface that the haze from outside was
beginning to fill this cavern. Jen sniffed the air, and wrinkled her
nose at the result: it had the smell of burning wood, molten plastic,
and strong hints of copper. Groddi had probably been right; the whole
forest could be on fire, and that might have been enough to drive the
Hunters down where the air wasn't deadly.

---

Jen removed her cloak---which was no longer anything resembling the
shades of 'white'---and tore it into serviceable strips that could
protect her eyes and shield her lungs from at least some of the acrid
smoke. *Another good reason we haven't joined 'team nudist',* she
thought to herself, wondering again at the casual lack of clothing that
pervaded the whole galaxy.

Jen had decided that she needed to see what was actually going on
outside; if the Hunters weren't in control anymore, or were in enough
chaos trying to deal with something else, then Jen and the Agwarens
could use the distraction to attempt their daring escape. Dampening them
in the trickle of water that flowed down the cavern wall, she wrapped
one strip of cloth over her face, the other over her eyes, and tied them
both tightly behind her head.

She took one step, and the world exploded.

The shockwave passed, but the cavern collapsed, burying Jen and the
tunnel she'd just come down in piles of dirt and debris, and it was
several moments before she got over the shock of still being alive;
something had hit the ground nearby, and the powerful tremor had finally
broken a cavern that was already badly damaged. Jen waited a minute, and
the sounds of violence evaporated, leaving only the quiet drip of water
and the pattering of small stones that continued to fall from the new
ceiling.

Though she'd received several nasty scrapes and a few minor cuts, Jen's
quick, instinctive reflexes had allowed her to escape serious injury.
She was fine---for a given value of 'fine'---but it still took her
minutes of careful effort with the fusion blade to cut herself free from
the rubble, and when she was done she sat atop the pile of earth and
broken stone wondering what would happen next. The tunnel to the
Agwarens was buried under more rock than a single fusion blade could
remove, and although that left the Agwarens stuck down there
indefinitely, the reality of their situation was not altogether
different to what it had been twenty minutes ago. Jen, on the other
hand, was completely fucked. She was stuck in what remained of the
cavern closest to the surface, unable to retreat and with nothing but an
inferno and several million Hunters outside. Whatever had been
distracting them had stopped and was probably dead, so now it was only a
matter of time before they got back to the busy task of trying to murder
her.

"Oh well," she said in self--resignation, "it's not as though I've ever
cared for just sitting around and waiting for things to happen."

Though she hated the idea of abandoning them, she couldn't think of any
way to save the Agwarens now, and even though they were only makeshift,
the cloth filters could give *her* a slim chance of getting away. She
rose, but she wiped a trembling hand across her face before moving any
further, and briefly closed her eyes as she pushed aside the unbidden
memories of the last time she'd left someone for dead. She had thought
that all that time alone on Cimbrean, then training with the soldiers,
and finally setting off on the grand space adventure that had started
with becoming an unlikely messiah and ended with her sitting in a horrid
cave was the sort of thing that should have changed her. Here she was,
though, leaving more friends to their death.

*New Jen*, she thought bitterly, *same as the old Jen*.

With her mood truly bleak, Jen finally set off the final length of
tunnel towards the distant crack of dim light, and thought that perhaps
it was nightfall. It wasn't until she got close---almost at the
opening---that she realised it wasn't the glow of twilight that lit the
sky; it was heavy with clouds, and illuminated in ruddy--red not by the
sun, but by an unimaginable amount of fire. The air was filled with
gentle drifts of falling ash and a thin haze of dust and smoke, but the
cloth filter was working for the moment, and the only side--effects
consisted of a bitter taste in her mouth.

She edged towards the cave's entrance with delicate care, not wanting to
draw the attention of anything that might be guarding the area, and
quickly discovered that this had been the right call. Outside of the
cave there sat twenty heavily armed tanks arranged into a barricade
around the cave, with Hunters taking up fortified positions on her side
of it. Jen stared at them in confusion, noting that their attention was
decidedly not on the entrance to the cave; whatever they were preparing
for, it was somewhere *out there*.

Jen withdrew back into the shadows of the cave, staying out of sight
while she considered her options, and quickly came to the conclusion
that she didn't have any. There was no way for her to avoid the Hunters
out there, and they'd even brought a load of damned tanks! It really
didn't seem fair that on top of their overwhelming numbers they also had
armoured vehicles.

Her attention had wandered, but was quickly returned by the sudden
commotion from outside; the Hunters were moving around frantically, and
there was the sound of machinery that could only have come from the
tanks. Jen peered around the edge of the cave once again, and noticed
streaks of bluish light slicing through the sky. Two of the tanks
exploded, and she saw that the strange energy was slicing through the
tanks and Hunters as well. The Hunters were in a panic, their tanks
peppering the deeper haze with kinetic weapons and coil--bolts. They
seemed to be aiming at random, hoping to hit whatever was out there, but
the blue energy kept claiming one tank after another, and didn't seem to
come from the same place twice. Whatever that was, it wasn't a human
weapon, and it wasn't like anything she'd ever seen in her travels.

The Hunters outside the tanks were moving around now, trying to get
clear of the energy beams and explosions. Those inside the tanks had
begun piling out in raw panic, and all of them were slowly backing away
from their vehicles and moving in the direction of the caves. Moments
later the tanks had fallen silent, and dozens of Hunters were moving in
Jen's direction.

They weren't the only things moving towards the cave; out of the haze
came a shadow, blue--light spitting from its arms in short, efficient
bursts. The Hunters, protected from the environment by their personal
force--fields, found them far less effective against this new weapons
technology, and seemed to burst, melt and burn as the strange energy hit
them. The shadow resolved into the outline of a humanoid, which further
resolved into the shape of a large metal man. It was smaller than the
Hunters, but no less hideous, and its metallic features were rendered
into a horrifying reptilian visage.

It closed the gap with ponderous movement, taking what cover it could
behind the very tanks the Hunters had abandoned. The Hunters edged
closer to the cave---Jen's eyes narrowed and she gripped her fusion
blade with white knuckles as they drew near---and took up defensive
positions from which they began blasting the tank with all the firepower
they had.

Something shot out from behind the tank that looked entirely like some
sort of missile---or perhaps a balloon---but rather than flying like a
rocket it bounced across the ground as it made its way towards them.
Fearing the worst, the Hunters scattered in all directions, and Jen
braced herself for the explosion never arrived.

What did arrive was more of the blue energy as it blasted through the
surprised Hunters with pinpoint accuracy, and the metal monster swiftly
advanced across the clearing with both arms raised. The Hunters returned
fire, shooting randomly to try and delay its progress so that they could
retreat into the only place they had left: the very cave where Jen was
hiding.

They poured into the narrow space of the cave, almost fighting each
other for precedence, and none of them ready for what was waiting. Jen's
fusion blade flashed through them as they pushed each other in, killing
them before they had a chance to face this surprising new menace. She
had a dozen down before they even had any idea anything was going on,
and three more before they got a shot off.

The fourth brought its gun up, firing off shots as quick as it could,
and clipped her in the shoulder with enough force that she lost her
footing and tumbled back down the tunnel in a sprawl of limbs, many of
which were not her own. She slid all the way down to the cave, her body
made slick with fresh ichor, and rolled aside as the space opened out.

Three Hunters had skittered into the room after her, and had already
found their footing on the uneven floor by the time she had regained
hers. Jen still had her fusion blade despite the fall, and her back was
facing solid rock, but they had her now and they all knew it.

"Fuck that," she growled, and lunged at the nearest, dodging their shots
and the defensive movements of its own blades, and cutting upward
through two of its limbs before passing the blade through its upper
torso. But that strike brought her to a moment of natural stillness, and
that was when they hit her.

It felt like being kicked by a horse, or at least how Jen imagined being
kicked by a horse might feel, and this time the shot was dead centre in
the side of her ribs. She felt her ribs crack, toppled, and fell back
onto the stone with the wind knocked out of her.

The one that had fired the shot then rushed her while she was down, but
with the last of her strength she hurled her fusion blade at it in a
spinning arc of raw heat. The blade cut right through its chest,
carrying with it enough force to knock the corpse backwards even after
it had passed through the other side. She let out a wheezing laugh
through her gasps for air, watching it fall, and then eyed the last
Hunter as it regarded her with a pleased, predatory twist to its maw.

---

"You are *meat*!" it hissed in twisted English, as it came at her with
its fusion blades swinging for her limbs; clearly it meant to taste her
flesh and relish her pain before it died to the metal monster, a task it
suddenly found much more challenging with a missing head. The blue light
flashed quickly through the room, melting a hole in the rock wall after
it completed its passage through the Hunter, and Jen quickly jerked her
valued limbs away from where the deadly weapons fell.

She didn't try to move any further as the clunk of metal footsteps
approached the cavern---she could barely breathe from the pain and
exertion and there was nowhere to go---and she made no moves to pick up
the fusion swords at her feet. There was no fight left in her anyway,
and she sincerely doubted the metal monstrosity would go down as easily
as the Hunters had. Better to appear unthreatening in case it was
friendly, or to spring an attack on it when it thought it was safe, or
failing all that, to let it kill her quickly and get it all over with.

It stepped into the room with one arm raised, and while its size was
imposing from where she lay, she guessed it could be no bigger than the
most sizable humans she'd ever seen, and for all the gleaming metal it
moved too organically to be nothing more than an extremely deadly robot.
Somebody, or something, was inside it.

Whoever it was spent the next moment sweeping the room with their eyes
before resting their gaze on her, and the dreadful reptilian visage
seemed all the more wicked when lit only by the fiery glow of fusion
blades.

Jen swallowed hard, feeling her heart pounding in her chest; at least
she wouldn't need to pretend to be afraid. "Are you," she started, and
hesitated as her voice began to waver. She decided to try again. "Are
you going to kill me as well?"

The metal monster just stared at her for a moment, as if considering its
words carefully, and finally opted to answer with just a single word
spoken in a harsh, rasping voice. "No."

---

**In a Cave, Underground**

**Adrian Saunders**

Adrian looked down at Jen, his eyes running the length of her body. Her
head was shaved down to a thick scarlet fuzz, her mouth and nose were
protected by one strip of cloth, and a second was pushed up above her
brow--line, but he couldn't mistake those eyes or the lightly freckled
cheeks under them. His brain had frozen up when he'd seen her, and he'd
forgotten to re--introduce himself, then she'd asked him if he was going
to kill her, and he'd taken his sweet fucking time answering in the
negative.

She looked up at him in surprise. "You... argh"---shit, she was
hurt!---"... you speak English?"

*Yes*, he thought, *and I also happen to be Adrian Saunders, here to
rescue you from this horrible cave. I know we haven't seen each other
for a long time, but it'd be great if we could go do something that
didn't involve anything trying to kill us for a while.*

"Yeah," he said, and immediately rolled his eyes in self--exasperation;
he was almost glad she didn't know who he was so that she wouldn't
realise he was actually a complete idiot. "You're hurt?"

She nodded, wincing as her attention was drawn to the pain. "Hunter got
me with an anti--tank gun. I think some of my ribs are broken, or
cracked at least, but I should still be able to walk."

With a look of determination, she immediately set out to prove her
words, putting one hand to the side of the cave while the other arm held
fast against her ribs, and pulled herself slowly to her feet. Adrian had
to hand it to her, she was a lot tougher than the last time they'd
talked.

"There," she said as she stood, exhaling sharply from the effort, "no
problem whatsoever! Do I get to be rescued now?"

Adrian wished he knew for certain, but he hadn't heard anything from
Spot in ages, and with Jen injured any attempt to follow the plan meant
he risked taking her outside to try reaching an evacuation that might
not exist. He sucked on his gums, trying to find a way to explain it
without sounding too pessimistic, but Jen seemed to take his prolonged
silence as all the answer she needed.

"That bad, then," she guessed, closing her eyes and gently exhaling.
"You really know how to get a girl's hopes up, do you know that?"

"Sorry," he apologised. "It's a difficult situation."

She regarded him with one very sceptical eyebrow raised. "I *think* I
might have you beat on that number. Anyway, if we waste any more time
without introductions, things are going to get awkward. I'm Jennifer
Delaney, but I've a feeling you might already know that."

"Yeah," Adrian replied, and cursed his mind for its sudden rebellion
against providing his own name. He'd come halfway across the galaxy to
find Jen, had slaughtered his way through a Hunter fleet, and had
probably permanently damaged this planet, and yet he was panicking now
that he'd finally found the woman.

Her eyebrow arched slightly higher. "This is usually the part of an
introduction where you tell me *your* name."

"Maybe later," he diverted, wincing in disgust at his own incapacity to
deal with this situation like a rational human being. "Right now we've
got to focus on getting you out of here."

"Oh come *on*," she complained. "It's not some kind of secret, is it?
You're not by any chance a member of the Special Boat Service?"

"I'm not quite *that* well--trained," Adrian admitted.

"But you *are* a military man," Jen quickly surmised, eyeing him
sharply. Had she been that perceptive when they'd last been together?
Adrian didn't think so. "That explains why you came to get me. Did you
know there would be Hunters?"

"We were hoping to beat them here," he said grimly. "Clearly that really
didn't work out as planned."

"Tell me about it," she muttered bleakly, not really directing the
comment at him. She raised her eyes a moment later, a question burning
in them. "Do you think you can dig a hole with that thing? Some of my
friends might still be alive down that tunnel"---she pointed at what
he'd taken as a collapsed section of cave---"and I'd like to get them
out if possible. I don't want to leave them to die."

Adrian looked at her quizzically, though she had no chance to see the
expression. "Friends?"

"Deathworlders," she replied, somewhat proudly. "I found a whole other
planet full of Deathworlders right off the bat. Not bad work for an I.T.
girl from Belfast."

"Not bad at all," he said, and stepped over to the indicated area to
investigate it more closely. It looked as though the tunnel was still in
good condition, and that most of the debris was from the cavern, but
there was no way to be certain until he'd started clearing some of it
away. "This may be possible, if I'm very careful."

"Then *be* very careful," she replied, and began stepping gingerly over
the fallen rocks to have a look at what he was doing.

Adrian raised his hand sharply, bidding her to stay where she was.
"Don't come over here! The suit will protect *me* from the fumes and any
further collapses, but *you'd* be in real danger."

Jen looked as though she was fighting down an argument, but relented
shortly thereafter and returned to her position against the cavern wall.
Adrian, all too aware of her piercing gaze, began targeting the rubble
with brief blasts of Zheron and letting the stone burn, melt, and
vaporise until a damaged section of tunnel revealed itself.

He drew back and turned to her. "It looks stable, as far as I can tell."

Now Jen did step over, and looked down the tunnel. "I can't see
anything," she said, staring off into the darkness, "but they weren't
that close anyway. I'll have to go down."

"You're hurt!" he objected, raising an arm in front of the hole to bar
her way. "I'll have to---"

"No," she said sharply, "it has to be me. They *know* me, they're simple
people, and quite frankly *you* look scary as shit. I can't call out,
thanks to my ribs, but the tunnel is wide enough that I'll be able to
reach them without any issues."

She waited for his further objection, but he didn't voice it. She was
right, and she'd still be right even if he were to unmask himself right
then and there, and go down that tunnel in his regular clothes.

"Don't worry," she reassured him, "I'll come right back and get you if
there are any problems."

Adrian let her go, and then he stood there watching, listening, and
waiting. He didn't think a few minutes had ever seemed like such an
eternity in his life, but eventually he saw the light of fusion blades
making their way down the tunnel, and quickly glanced to ensure the
automated defence matrix was still disabled; Jen would not be happy if
the suit started murdering all her companions just because they'd gotten
a little too close with a dangerous weapon.

---

He made sure to give them plenty of room to exit the tunnel, taking up a
position that was near the exit to the cavern, and observed them as they
clambered free. There were thirteen of them in total, they were covered
in hair, like Bigfoot or Chewbacca, but wore more clothes than either,
and they regarded him with untrusting eyes. One of them helped Jen from
the tunnel, proving he was strong enough to be a Deathworlder, and then
turned to glance between the two of them.

"This is the one you spoke of?" the Deathworlder asked.

Jen nodded. "That's armour, I don't think he really looks like
that"---she turned to face him---"do you?"

"I'd bloody well hope not," Adrian confirmed.

Jen nodded slightly, perhaps a little approvingly. "He doesn't seem to
want to reveal very important secrets such as his name, however, so
we're going to call him 'Kevin'. Kevin, this is Lord Groddi and all that
remains of his army. Whatever your escape plan is, it's going to need
some adjusting."

Adrian's lips thinned into a narrow frown. In no universe could he
imagine fitting all these people aboard Spot, if he could even get them
there in the first place. He looked at her, and saw the worry present in
her eyes. It wasn't possible, and she knew it, but she was hoping for
some kind of miracle and he didn't really want to completely disappoint
her immediately after turning up.

He sighed. "Alright."

Jen seemed surprised. "Really?"

"Really," he confirmed. "But I can't do this on my own. How do you feel
about driving a tank?"


