# S - Red Line Run
***Salvage***

---

The human was riding the Vulza.

Thirteen had spent valuable time coming to terms with that fact. On the
face of it, it was an absurd idea, one that even the most foolhardy of
trainers would never have attempted, and yet the human was parading
himself around as if he belonged there. It was an insult to the
evolution of the Vulza, as well as to the man hours spent turning
nature\'s greatest predator into a true combat machine.

When he had first detected it on the internal sensors, Thirteen had not
truly understood what was occurring. The Human and the Corti had started
moving again, much as he\'d expected, but the Vulza had not only been
allowed to live but it was moving with them. Their path had even
straightened out from the meandering path that they\'d been taking
before, and now it was heading directly towards him. The sensors could
tell him that much, but they couldn\'t tell him how or why.

That was enough of a curiosity for him to take time away from the
details of his other arrangements to send yet another useless sentry bot
against them, and this time Thirteen had been sure to inhabit the
hapless robot so that he could see for himself. And what he had seen was
the complete farce that was being made of his prize beast!

Not that the beast seemed to belong to him anymore; someone, almost
certainly the Corti, had fully suborned its control unit, and was now
blocking out all other access. No matter what Thirteen tried, he had no
ability to reclaim control of the monster, and when he had finally
accepted that he had put the sentry bot to good use.

The sentry bot had only managed to fire a single shot before the Vulza
was on it, and before all communication with the robot came to an end,
but Thirteen saw enough to be certain that the kinetic pulse had at
least imparted a glancing blow to the Corti that had caused him so much
trouble. The internal sensors revealed him to still be alive, but they
said nothing about the quality of his health, and after a shot like that
he had to at least be in a serious amount of pain.

For the time being that would have to be enough, and perhaps it might
even be preferable. It wasn\'t as though any of them were going to
escape, not now that Thirteen had activated the Emergency Option. There
was no getting out of this one, and all Thirteen had to do was wait and
enjoy the ride.

Their journey would be over soon. Forever.

---

Adrian carried the injured Corti in his arms, resting him gently over
the back of the Vulza as it marched them towards the motherfucker who\'d
done this to him. He was furious at Thirteen, but also at himself; he
had allowed himself to grow complacent with the sentry bots only
targeting him, and Askit had paid the price.

That price, from what he could tell, was a broken arm and possibly some
cracked ribs to go with it, but at least his suit remained intact as far
as Adrian could tell. No matter what happened, the little Corti
wouldn\'t have to be worried about sudden decompressions.

"Don\'t worry mate," Adrian reassured the Corti hacker, "I won\'t let
any of those fuckers get you again, and you can bet I\'m going to sort
this fuckstick out."

He had everything he needed to do just that, including Betty the
friendly missile of promises needing to be kept, which was currently
tethered to the space--dragon\'s tail. It must have been bizarre to see
their procession, but if there were any more sentries left to witness it
they didn\'t approach.

Askit, for his part in it, seemed remarkably upbeat about the
deteriorated state of his health -- although perhaps that was just shock
-- and didn\'t do anything stupid like asking Adrian to leave him
behind. That might have had something to do with him being a Corti, but
Adrian preferred to think of it as Askit predicting the response where
he\'d be told to get fucked if he thought that was happening.

The space--dragon didn\'t waste any time in getting them to where they
needed to go, and the wide doors to the command deck opened to accept
the whole of the beast. There, amongst the beeping consoles and one
really weird looking chair, stood the smuggest motherfucker Adrian had
seen in a long time.

"There\'s no fucking way you\'re not Thirteen," he observed, his eyes
sweeping over the rest of the weird alien biped.

Thirteen was probably the tallest alien Adrian had ever had the
misfortune to meet, taller even than the blue giraffes, and it wore
clothes -- actual, proper clothes -- to cover and adorn its slender
body. Its face, however, looked like a child\'s drawing, with big,
widely set eyes, large pointy ears, and no fucking nose to be seen
anywhere.

Askit turned his head with a grunt of pain so that he could see.
"It\'s.. a Qinis. They\'re with the Celzi Alliance."

"He\'s missing his nose," Adrian replied, fixated on the fact. "How does
he smell?"

Askit turned his attention back to Adrian. "I\'m sure he has some sort
of olfactories--"

"Terrible, mate," Adrian interrupted with a sigh, knowing that it was
moments like this where he missed having another human around. There
would have been no way that Jen would have missed a joke like that. "He
smells terrible."

Smiling faintly, Askit patted him on the hand. "Very amusing."

Adrian pointed his gun at the creature, who stared at it with some
mixture of fear and firm resolve. "You are correct," it said, "I *am*
Thirteen. I assume that is the missile you wish to lodge into my anus?
And may I say, it\'s *very* impressive that you\'ve managed to take
control of my--"

Adrian shot him in the left leg. It exploded.

Thirteen didn\'t seem to enjoy it much, because he began screaming in
agony before he\'d even finished hitting the deck. His leg was gone from
below the knee, if the creature had a knee, and he now seemed far too
wrapped up in his own issues for Adrian\'s liking.

Sliding carefully from the back of the Vulza, Adrian took care with
Askit to avoid hurting him any further, and set him down in one of the
comfortable chairs where he could watch the exchange that was about to
happen, and made sure that it was far enough away from the Vulza that if
something were to go wrong with Askit\'s control of the beast, he
wouldn\'t become a Corti--sized snack.

"That was for my mate over there," Adrian told the wailing alien as he
stepped closer to it. "Now you\'re going to tell me everything I want to
know."

That seemed to bring Thirteen out of his anguish for a moment, because
the alien stared at him with naked hatred. "I\'m not going to--
AAAAAAHHHH!"

Adrian stopped pressing down on the stump of Thirteen\'s left leg once
he felt his point was made. "As I was saying, you\'re going to tell me
everything."

"You\'re a monster!" Thirteen accused, staring up at him with wide eyes.
"Worse than I could have imagined."

The alien recoiled from Adrian\'s hard stare. "Maybe," he grated, "but
then I\'m not the freak with one leg."

Adrian pressed his foot down once again. It seemed this alien was a slow
learner.

---

Normally torture wasn\'t something that Askit liked, because it always
seemed as though it was so messy. Thirteen was an exception, since Askit
didn\'t much appreciate being shot, but he still found Adrian\'s
methodology to be somewhat chilling. This almost seemed like the sort of
thing that he had done before.

"There\'s nothing you can do!" Thirteen told Adrian, his tone begging,
pleading for some form of mercy. "It\'s all locked out! Even I can\'t
get in!"

Thirteen had become extremely cooperative after his first few lessons in
proper manners, and had let them know all about the fact that they were
being shot into a singularity. This, Askit realised, was the
Hierarchy\'s version of the \'self--destruct\' system Adrian had been
talking about earlier, and it was every bit as terrifying.

"What do you know about black holes, Askit?" Adrian asked, turning away
from the weeping Thirteen for the time being. "Is it as bad as I think
it is?"

"It\'s worse than you think it is," Askit replied, interpreting the
strange phrase to mean what it was intended to. He\'d already been
looking up the details that Thirteen had told them, and none of it
looked good. "Gravity wells like that, or intense gravity waves like the
ones used in Hunter traps, they\'ll break down the warp field of any
vessel in FTL."

"Won\'t that destroy the ship?" Adrian queried. "I\'ve almost had that
happen before."

Askit levelled a stare at him; of course he\'d almost had it happen
before, the human was a walking disaster zone. And yet, somehow safer to
be around than not, proving that sometimes you just had to take the good
with the bad.

"It was aboard the Zhadersil," Adrian added, and that was all the
explanation that Askit needed or what going to get. From what he could
tell from Adrian\'s stories about the ship, it was a decrepit piece of
crap that had been decommissioned by the people who built it aeons ago,
and Adrian had repeatedly fouled up trying to put it all back together.
It was a wonder it had ever been working as much as it had.

"External stimuli will dissolve a field safely," Askit explained, giving
the human a basic education any other space farer would already have
received. "Only a systems failure will result in the kind of patchy
breakup that nearly killed you."

Adrian turned back to Thirteen, who was busy taking shallow breaths and
staring vacantly at the ceiling. "Let me guess... *pay attention*!"

He pressed down on the stump again, getting Thirteen\'s full and
undivided attention along with a lingering yowl of agony. "We don\'t get
kinetic drives either?"

"Only... only the FTL is locked," Thirteen replied, his voice wavering
from the pain. "You\'ll have kinetics when we leave warp, but it won\'t
have enough power to get you free."

Adrian looked towards the exit that led to the life pod reserved for
command deck personnel. "I\'m guessing we can\'t use the life pod
either?"

"Locked!" Thirteen confirmed, some gloating returning to his voice
before it was again pressed out of him.

"Then we\'ve got no way out," Adrian replied, once he was satisfied that
Thirteen wasn\'t gloating anymore. Then he turned to Askit. "We can\'t
try a slingshot, can we?"

"Imagine I don\'t know what that is," Askit replied weakly, "and then
imagine I\'d just been shot."

"Right, sorry," Adrian apologised. "I mean, I know this from... things.
Entertainment things, but can\'t we turn enough to swing around it? If
we keep accelerating it might help us get out."

Askit considered this, not seeing anything obviously wrong with
Adrian\'s plan except for the fact that it may simply not work. That way
could certainly build up a lot more speed and momentum to get them free,
rather than the usual tried and failed method of turning around to go
back the other way. "It might work," he agreed, "but I\'d need access to
the ship computers."

Adrian turned back to Thirteen, who was by now staring at the pair of
them in some sort of vacant terror. Shock had clearly set in, although
his leg had quite surprisingly stopped bleeding. He wasn\'t any kind of
doctor, but Askit wondered whether this was the result of some sort of
miracle drug, or if it had simply been cauterised by crushing.

"You\'re going to give us full access to everything," Adrian told him
flatly.

Thirteen shrank back from him, pressing himself against the floor as
much as he could. "I... I can\'t! The things they\'d do to me!"

"The things *I\'ll* do you if you don\'t," Adrian replied. "Remember...
you\'ve still got another leg."

---

Torturing Thirteen had been unpleasant, not in the matter of causing the
creature pain -- he certainly deserved it -- but he had not even
hesitated to do it, and that raised all sorts of very personal questions
that Adrian did his best not to think about. It was the sort of thing
that had nasty associations with Cameron White, and of course the other
time...

At least it had paid off; Askit had taken control of the ship away from
the Hierarchy agent, and was busy running simulations on slingshot
trajectories. Since he had nothing better to do, Adrian ensured that
Thirteen was properly contained and then contented himself with watching
the small Corti grow increasingly frustrated.

"This isn\'t going to work," he finally said, looking up to meet
Adrian\'s watchful gaze. "The projections that are promising for us even
withstanding the tidal forces won\'t get us free, and the ones that will
get us free will destroy us."

"Maybe there\'s a happy medium?" Adrian suggested. He wasn\'t willing to
give up before they\'d even tried, whether simulations labelled
something impossible or not.

"There is no happy medium," Askit snapped irritably. Adrian remained
silent; it was clear that the pain and frustration and fear of being
crushed into a sprinkle of matter were all getting to him.

"Alright, mate," Adrian said calmly, "but maybe put all that on the main
screen so you can explain it?"

Askit glared at him, but relented immediately. "Fine."

The picture that appeared on the main screen was simplistic in the
extreme; a dark blue screen with a black--filled circle in its centre,
with a trio of more colourful curved lines set to either side of it.

"The red line, Askit explained, pointing to the middle circle, "shows
the minimum distance the ship can survive. Any closer and we die, no
exceptions."

Adrian looked at that line and saw that it seemed to come fairly close
to the black hole. The yellow line was closer still, which wasn\'t
helpful no matter what it meant, but the cheerfully green line that was
furthest out by far seemed promising.

"What\'s the green one?" He asked, pointing to it. "Green is normally
good, right?"

"The green line shows the maximum distance we can put between us and the
\'black hole\', given our projected warp exit point," Askit explained.
"And the yellow? That\'s where we can get enough speed to actually
escape."

"So what do we need?" Adrian asked. "Less weight? More go?"

"Weight isn\'t an issue so long as we\'ve got the momentum," Askit
replied. "I varied the mass around in case you wanted to try blasting
off parts of the hull... it seems that a higher mass yields a better
result."

"I guess Pegleg Pete over there gets to stick around then," Adrian said
grudgingly. "Could we push the drive beyond its normal limits?"

Askit shook his head. "Anything beyond its tolerances will cause damage,
and the amount of extra power you\'d need for this would burn it out
within moments."

"I\'ll go take out the limiters just in case," Adrian decided. "And if
it comes down to it maybe we could get out and push?"

It had been intended as a joke, but Askit didn\'t laugh. Instead he
looked back at his calculations the a thoughtful frown. "That is... a
potentially helpful idea."

Adrian was puzzled for a few moments, not understanding what the Corti
could mean by that. Then he realised. "The missiles..."

Askit immediately grew wide eyed in horror. "The *missiles*? I was only
talking about the robots! They have small kinetic drives but they should
give a small boost."

"Why not the missiles as well?" Adrian asked. "They shoud give a lot
more of a push."

Askit blinked. "Because missiles *explode*?"

"Only if you arm them," Adrian replied, "and from the looks of it we
need all the fucking help we can get."

---

Once they\'d agreed upon the most insane plan of all time, Adrian had
made the trip down to the reactor and kinetic drive to make them unsafe,
leaving Askit to determine just how unsafe it would get. There\'d been a
lot of things to consider, such as how many missiles there were, and
where they\'d best be placed to push the ship along without breaking it
in the process. Ultimately it proved that the room they were stored in
was the best candidate, having the thickest walls inside the ship with
more structural reinforcement than was strictly required.

That simplified things, and given the overall complexity of the rest of
the mad scheme a little simplicity was a great comfort. The final
numbers came back just before Adrian reentered the room.

"Still going?" he asked, taking a seat. He was out of breath, and must
only have just finished preparing the engines for an act of desperation.

Askit looked up at him, cautious against appearing too optimistic. "We
can do it," he said. "But only if nothing goes wrong."

Only if none of the ten thousand things that might go wrong did not go
wrong. He was definitely *not* feeling optimistic.

"Good," Adrian replied, sighing in resignation. "Then we\'re only
*almost* definitely fucked. How tight is it?"

Askit winced, and Adrian grimaced his understanding. "First human to
dive into a black hole. Well, would have at least been nice to have
*that* fucking entry in the world records. Pity nobody will ever know."

"You\'ll know," Askit replied sarcastically. "I\'ve been told that\'s
all that matters."

That got a snort of amusement from Adrian. They were probably about to
die together, so why not laugh in the face of it?

FTL cut out.

There was a lurch as the kinetics kicked in, pushed along by over one
hundred machines, mines and missiles to give the ship drive the slight
but consistent boost it needed.

Askit took the initial readings on their position, aware of the fearful
anticipation with which the human was waiting.

Askit cleared his throat and turned to face Adrian. "Well the good news
is that I *planned* for the tightest possible chance. Remember the red
line?"

"Fuck!"

"Get buckled in," Askit suggested. "It\'s going to get bumpy, thanks to
the time dilation and gravity waves."

Adrian stared at him for a moment before doing as suggested. "I\'d
forgotten about that! Do you know how long this trip is going to lose
us?"

Askit knew he\'d be thinking about Jen, he\'d be thinking about how she
was out there somewhere, stuck on an alien world all by herself with
only the ruins for company. It was probably much more pleasant than what
was going on here, but Adrian wouldn\'t be thinking that way.

"I don\'t know how to tell you this," Askit said, gravely, "but at the
speeds we will be going, what seems like a (ten hour) trip to us...
well, everybody else we know will age an additional (fifteen...
minutes)."

Adrian stared at him, mouth open. "You shit! YYou mean it\'s not going
to be like a fucking year or ten?"

"I\'m not planning on taking up residence," Askit snickered.

Adrian laughed, loud and long as though he was laughing out the
awfulness of their day. "You fucking well had me going for a moment
there! Jesus Christ, I almost shit myself thinking about life going on
everywhere else while we were stuck getting away from this fucking
thing."

Adrian\'s laughs ran dry, and he rested back into his seat. "You know, I
was thinking that apart from the dragon slaying, today was probably the
worst day of my life."

"My today would probably be the worst day of *anyone\'s* life," Askit
argued. "*You* defeated two Vulza, and *you* didn\'t get shot."

"Well, the day\'s not yet over," Adrian replied pessimisticly. "What\'s
the bet I end up getting shot now you\'ve said that?"

Askit had heard of the human fondness for gambling and considered what
might be worth wagering, then shrugged; why not bet it all? The odds
were good that Adrian wouldn\'t live to collect. "Fifteen million
credits."

Adrian blinked in momentary confusion. "It was just a figure of... wait,
isn\'t that a whole fuckload?"

"Yes," Askit confirmed. It was probably a dozen times the yearly wage of
a corporate leader, and it had been a lot easier to earn. "But it
doesn\'t count if you do it or have yourself shot."

"Where did you *get* that much," Adrian asked, annoyingly ignoring the
details of the wager.

"Usually by hacking the accounts of most people who enjoy my delightful
company," Askit told him. "Altogether I picked up close to one million
from the officers of the Celzi fleet alone."

Adrian stared at him in complete amazement. "No shit?"

Askit returned a slight, self satisfied smile. "No shit."

"Wait," Adrian frowned, shooting a wary glare at Askit, "you haven\'t
stolen from *me*, have you?"

"*You* have no money," Askit replied, rather amused. "And *you* steal
absolutely anything you want, I mean... how many ships is this now? You
even stole a Vulza... although technically I helped. It\'s actually so
inspiring that you could almost consider my own thefts as a sort of
homage."

Adrian seemed put out by that, and decided to stare at his console
instead. "Didn\'t think it was *that* much stealing..."

He proceeded to look thoughtful, and them somewhat embarrassed and
discomforted by whatever it was he\'d been thinking about. "Well...
maybe it *has* been that much stealing. I should stop stealing."

Askit thought *that* particular resolution would last just about as long
as it took Adrian to find the next shiny thing, but he kept such
comments to himself. Instead he turned on the main screen to display
their heading, and the singularity itself along with it.

"That\'s it then?" Adrian asked, staring at the screen. "I don\'t see
it."

"It\'s easier to see where it\'s bending the light... there!" Askit
pointed out. At his command an overlay appeared on the display to give a
better indication of distance and position. The numbers on the former
were decreasing fast.

Adrian must have noticed it too. "Looks like we\'re moving a fair clip,"
he noted. "How fast is that exactly? Something like light speed?"

"More like less than one percent of," Askit said with a snort. "That\'s
still really quick."

The hull began to rattle, and they both looked around at it, waiting for
the moment when the whole thing fell to pieces. "What\'s that?" Adrian
asked, glancing at Askit.

"Probably debris hitting the ship," Askit replied. "With luck we\'ll
actually last long enough to reach the \'black hole\'."

That didn\'t seem to make Adrian feel any better, because he was
gripping his seat so tightly his knuckles were white. "Is it going to be
like this all the way?"

"Not a chance," Askit said. "It\'s only going to get worse."

---

Five hours was coming up fast, and it didn\'t seem like Askit had been
lying. The shuddering had only increased, and now its rattle had made
its way down to his bones.

"Gravity is getting heavy," Adrian said, wishing he could wipe the sweat
away from his brow. They\'d long since donned helmets in case of sudden
decompression, although they didn\'t bother with providing Thirteen with
the same protection and there were simply no options when it came to
Barney the Space Dragon.

Not that it mattered with Thirteen, his body had given out under the
excessive gravity about the time the sirens started nagging about hull
fatigue and other nonsense warnings that only mattered to people had
some kind of choice.

"I noticed," Askit replied weakly. Adrian didn\'t need to be a doctor to
tell the little Corti was suffering; he\'d done an admirable job of
persisting through the pain of a broken limb and cracked ribs, but those
injuries would only be exacerbated the high G--forces.

"How much can the artificial gravity cope with?" Adrian asked, although
what he really wanted to know was how long Askit himself could last.
Adrian didn\'t want to get to the end of this and need to bury another
friend.

That kind of question wasn\'t fooling anyone, and Askit turned his head
to look at Adrian with defiance in his eyes. "I\'ll survive more than
*this*!"

The ship shook violently all of a sudden, and as a new alarm began to
wail Adrian found himself nearly crushing the arms of his seat in an
iron grip. "What the fuck was that?"

"Starboard dorsal finally came free," Askit wheezed. "I\'m recalculating
the trajectory..."

Adrian tensed for bad news. "And?"

"Still good," Askit replied, sounding far too tired for his own good.
"Adrian... if I don\'t make it..."

"Don\'t talk like that, mate," Adrian interrupted sharply. "You\'re
going to be fine."

"Yes," Askit agreed, "but in case I\'m not, I want you to know that you
can\'t have my money. You can\'t have any of it."

Adrian blinked, turning his head back to look at the Corti to find him
smiling weakly. He laughed. "You shit--stirrer, you\'re fine!"

"Just a little out of breath," Askit admitted. "Aside from the arm,
of--"

They froze at the rising creak of straining metal, and slowly turned to
face the starboard wall where the noise only grow louder.

"Oh..." Adrian whispered with a sense of dreadful anticipation. "Shi--"

A sickening scream cut through his words as the hull ripped itself
apart; a violent twisting of ship and tortured steel pulling away at
worn fastenings until they burst. The starboard side of the command deck
fell away in a shower of lightning and a scream of air, spiralling into
an inky oblivion that Adrian would *never* forget.

The void took it all. The air, the crushed remains of Thirteen, and
every other scrap of shit that hadn\'t been tied down; it all poured out
to feed the terrible blackness. The Vulza scrambled, blind and confused,
claws scraping uselessly along the convulsing steel deck until he too
fell into emptiness, and his flailing form vanished almost instantly
from Adrian\'s sight.

Then everything was still.

Never in his life had Adrian been so glad that buckles existed, and were
a thing in space. It was a pity about Barney, but at least it hadn\'t
been him, and the fact that he would no longer be able to turn up to
rescue Jen while riding a dragon no longer seemed quite as important.

He had a moment of senseless incomprehension as he bore witness to the
great engine of uncreation, and then the awful screams began. His
screams.

"Jesus fucking Christ!" he shouted in raw terror as the abyss yawned
wide to his right, a direction that now felt very much more like *down*.
"Holy fucking shitsticks!"

"Some of the computers are still working!" Askit quickly determined,
relief in his voice along with a sense of desperation that hinted he was
barely keeping it together. "We lost a big chunk of the fragmented hull
there..."

"No fucking shit," Adrian replied, unable to keep his eyes from the
terrible blackness below. He clung to his seat to prevent himself from
sagging too heavily towards the doom below. He didn\'t want to be any
closer to *that* fucking thing than he needed to be.

"Adrian," Askit continued gravely, "we don\'t have enough mass any more.
When we get past the singularity we\'re going to have to use that final
push and hope it gets us far enough."

"We haven\'t exactly had a lot of fucking luck with hoping for shit,"
Adrian snapped. Looking at that huge space of emptiness, and the way the
light seemed to bend around it like it was passing through water, he
didn\'t think he\'d ever been as flat out terrified. His own personal
re--entry of a planet\'s atmosphere now seemed absurdly untroublesome
compared to what threatened him now.

"Maybe our luck will change," suggested Askit. The poor Corti really
*must* have been losing it at this point, because he was beginning to
sound like an optimist.

Adrian reflected that it could also just be profound desperation, the
same sort he himself was feeling right now; there were times when they
began to sound pretty much the same, and if there was ever a time for
them to overlap this would be it.

"How much more of this shit do we have to go?" Adrian shouted, more over
his own terror than any noise. Even with the chasm below, tearing
much--needed pieces of the ship from them, the void held only silence.

And it was an awful, deadly silence.

"Askit?" Adrian asked, twisting his head to see the form of the Corti
hanging limp in the buckles. His eyes widened. "Askit!"

---

The intense gravity had been too much for Askit, and he had blacked out
shortly after the ship had fallen apart. He must have remained that way
for a while, because by the time he was conscious again the singularity
was behind them and they were pointed out into open space.

"I feel like shit," he declared as he woke, and if anything he was
underestimating the sensation. He truly could not remember a time when
he had felt more drained or more injured than he did now, and yet there
was no time for any more rest.

"Askit?!" Adrian asked, sounding shocked, but glad at the same time.
"You\'re alive!"

"Some might call it that," Askit replied bitterly. "People more
optimistic than I am. I see we haven\'t lost much more of the ship."

Adrian laughed humourlessly. "Yeah, and thank fuck for that! Let\'s
never do that again."

"Agreed," Askit said without hesitation. "But let\'s not forget that the
day is still not over. We have that one last push..."

"I started that a minute ago," Adrian said. "The last fucking kick. How
are we looking?"

Askit inspected the trajectory projection, and to his surprise it was
looking good so long as the drive held out for just (one minute) longer.
"Looks like we\'ll make it if it holds. Then we can punch back into
FTL."

"Do you reckon it will?" Adrian asked, but as far as Askit could tell
there wasn\'t any hope there, nothing but the question and a deep
weariness.

Askit shook his head, the same weariness upon him. "I don\'t--"

The lights all went out, with the exception of Askit\'s datapad that now
lit his vacuum suit pocket. He took it out and read the bad news.

"No."

Adrian sighed heavily. "Fuck. Me."

Askit sighed too. "We\'re not done yet, Adrian," he said, wishing with
everything had he had that this day would come to its end. "We have one
*last* chance."

---

The life pod on the command deck had been connected to the starboard
hull, and it had, along with everything else, been torn away to feed the
maw of the black hole. It had been the only fully functional life pod on
the ship, but it hadn\'t been the *only* life pod.

There was no time to be gentle now, and Adrian had tethered Askit to his
back in spite of the little Corti\'s curses and yelps of pain. There was
no way that he could move as quickly through the microgravity as Adrian
could manage, and there was no way he could negotiate the broken
hallways either. Not that there was much left of any other kind.

The command deck, it seemed, had barely been attached to the rest of the
ship after what it had endured, and it seemed that their fortune had
held at least that far. It was jutting out from its place on the ship,
connected by a twisted wreckage to the larboard, and the long cables
that now drifted free of any containment.

Adrian had made taken the two hundred meter uncontrolled leap towards
the next section of the ship, landing lightly on the wall of some
annihilated room and blasting straight through it to find himself in a
storage room.

He nearly laughed; with the exception of the big hole in the starboard
side, it had the same layout as the one he and Askit had broken their
way into when they had first boarded the vessel. He briefly marvelled at
what seemed so long ago now, despite only being a matter of hours, that
it had begun to feel rather nostalgic.

There wasn\'t much laughter to be had now, though. There wasn\'t time to
have it even if he could find any. The more time he spent fucking
around, the less chance they would have of the life pod actually getting
them out of there.

"Next door," Askit said, peering from over his shoulder. "That\'s the
cargo bay."

"I know," Adrian replied, wondering how he was going to get through it.
His anti--tank gun might have done the job, but that had been among
those objects that fed the dark star. "Any ideas on getting through it?"

Askit sighed. "Got a pipe?"

Now Adrian did laugh, but he started looking through the boxes until he
found something that helped. It wasn\'t a pipe though; it was better
than a pipe.

He smiled in weary relief, activated the fusion cutter, and started
slicing through the door like it was butter. "Thank fuck for small
mercies."

"Look for a crate big enough to hold a life pod," Askit said, and
pointed over to the larboard side of the cargo bay where the bigger
crates were stored. "It\'s supposed to be over there, so it should still
be in one piece."

"I hope we didn\'t blow it up with the missile earlier," Adrian said,
looking over and seeing the mess that had started sliding across the
deck under the power of the black hole\'s gravity. The huge starboard
airlock was still in one piece, but a massive pile of debris floated
around it. "We\'re going to have to open that as well."

"I\'ll tell you what to do once we find the pod," Askit urged. "Come
on!"

They started looking, both of them trying to make out the possible
content of the crates that lined the shelves, until Askit finally
happened to spy it. "There!" he cried out with certainty, jabbing a
finger in the direction. "That\'s it!"

"You\'re sure?" Adrian asked, peering at the box and finding nothing
remarkable about it other than its size.

"There\'s a beacon code on the side of the crate," Askit replied. "Those
only show up on things with *beacons*."

Sighing, Adrian pushed them over towards it. "Here\'s hoping it\'s not a
fucking satellite then."

It wasn\'t, and Adrian had never been so glad to have been wrong in his
life. The life pod was not, apparently, completely operational -- it
didn\'t have a functional FTL drive for starters, and it hadn\'t been
provisioned with food -- but it had a kinetic drive, it had air, and
most importantly it had a working beacon and stasis system.

"Alright..." said Adrian, freeing it from the crate with a few long
slashes of the fusion cutter. "What do we do now?"

"Now we move it over to the door, and we feed some of its power into the
thing so we can get out!" Askit told him. "Let me off here, I\'ll get it
over there and you can do the heavy lifting."

More heavy lifting, Adrian thought with a sigh, but of course, one way
or another, there\'d soon enough be nothing left to do. So he had that
to look forward to. "Fine."

He was there before Askit managed to park the small capsule near the
power conduits, and had already pulled out enough slack to get the thing
jump started.

"Looks like you know what to do," Askit observed over the link. "So do
it. There\'s an external lead port on the side I\'ve oriented towards
you. You should be able to see it."

He did see it, and Adrian didn\'t need any more prompting than that, and
it took all of ten seconds to fix the cables into place. It took five
more for Askit to push enough power through to the door to get it to
open, or at least open enough to get the pod out; the door was massive,
and their power and time were both too limited to push it all of the
way.

"Come on!" Askit demanded as it widened enough, his voice full of
urgency and fear. "Get in! *Get in*!"

The pod started moving as soon as Adrian fell inside, surprised by the
sudden return of artificial gravity, and he lay there to catch his
breath while Askit squeezed the pod through the narrow slot with only
the gentlest of knocks and pushed it free of the dead ship.

"We\'re out!" he reported, turning to look at Adrian. "Now we just have
to hope we did it in time."

"You don\'t know?" Adrian asked, pulling himself to his feet for what he
hoped would be the last time.

"The pod isn\'t equipped with a sophisticated navigation unit," Askit
explained. "I don\'t know *anything* except which direction we\'re going
and how fast."

"But are we going fast enough?" Adrian persisted, finding he was now
leaning heavily on a chair for support.

Askit shook his head apologetically. "I just don\'t know."

"Fuck dammit!" Adrian cursed, hitting the chair that supported him with
the last of his strength, then leaning against it all the more heavily.
"What do we do now?"

"Now?" Askit asked, turning back to look at the consoles. "Well, I\'ve
already retuned the beacon to ask for help from people we want to see,
so all that\'s left is to go into stasis."

Closing his eyes, Adrian gritted his teeth, and found he just didn\'t
have the energy for it all any more. "So then if we don\'t make it..."

"Then we don\'t know," Askit finished.

It sounded good. They\'d either live and tell the tale, or this would be
the last part of hell they\'d need to go through. "Alright, let\'s do
it" he said, holding up a fist for the little Corti to bump. "See you on
the other side, mate."


