---
title: Lost Futures
---

# Lost Futures

\

\

::: chapter
**DATE POINT: 5Y 2M 4D AV**

**STARPORT THREE OF GAMLIS HOMEWORLD**

**Darragh**

"The most important thing we need to do right now is get the feck out of
this city," Darragh decided. Looking out of the spaceport observation
windows, he could see the city that mostly surrounded it, and the total
lack of activity lent it a sense of great emptiness; it was hard to
think of it as anything but a newly--minted tomb.

His companions didn't argue. Askit seemed bored and uninterested, while
Keffa simply raised a single eyebrow at the statement; an invitation for
further explanation.

"Because of fires," he elaborated.

She studied the city more carefully. "I don't see any..."

"They'll happen," Darragh told her with certainty; the slow breakdown of
infrastructure, and the fires that followed, was one of the few things
he could recall from the 'documentaries' about the end of the world.
Under other conditions he might have suggested gathering what they
needed from the city, but given that Askit had somehow managed to wreck
everything at the same time, and that the Hierarchy were probably
already on their way, it seemed prudent to get the hell out of Dodge as
soon as possible. "All it takes is a few sparks in the wrong place, and
the lack of working fire controls will do the rest. I don't know about
you, but I don't want to get stuck in a burning city."

"Can't fault that logic," Askit remarked unhappily. "There's also the
inevitable enemy reprisal to consider. Much as I'd prefer it to be
otherwise, going rural could be the most sensible option."

Darragh studied the Corti, wondering if the double--genocide had even
affected him, or if his only concern was the sudden and inconvenient
absence of working technology. Knowing what he did of the Corti psyche,
it was probably the latter, but Askit was strange for his kind, and
often displayed unrestrained amusement and annoyance.

"Shit," Keffa replied. "I hadn't even thought of that! Looks like we
don't have much of a choice, then. You've got some sort of plan,
Darragh?"

For a moment he could only stare at her in surprise; he'd expected her
to try and take the lead, as she always did, in spite of knowing nothing
about what she was doing, and it had literally taken the end of the
world for that to change. "Right," he said, thinking on his feet, "like
Askit said, the first thing is to get away from the city and into the
sticks. This isn't a deathworld, so it shouldn't be too hard for the two
of us..."

He spared a glance towards the little Corti, whose flat expression
seemed to challenge any attempt at criticism. "It shouldn't be too hard
for the *three* of us," he corrected meaningfully. "Don't forget who
you're talking to. I can take care of myself."

Darragh nodded, but wondered if that was really true. The Corti had
already burdened himself by donning some convoluted excuse for a
bandolier and stuffing it with everything he deemed useful, and Darragh
didn't doubt that he'd be the one carrying most of it by nightfall. "If
you say so... and hey, maybe we'll get lucky and find something that
survived your little purge."

"I doubt it," Askit replied.

"He's right," Keffa agreed. "Even if there were, there's no way the
Hierarchy wouldn't check on them first. Right now our best chance is to
find a hole and hide in it."

"Fair enough," Darragh conceded, "you're right that our focus should be
on survival, so we just need the fastest way out of the city. Anyone
remember the way?"

"Do I look like a map?" Askit snapped.

Keffa shrugged. "You're the one who grew up on a Deathworld, Darragh...
can't you just use some of that experience?"

Darragh had the idea that maybe Keffa was confusing her Deathworlders; a
childhood spent in Ireland had given him little in the way of survival
skills. Not much could be reckoned from his current vantage point
either, except to observe the sky--scrapers in every direction. Askit's
jaded commentary had given him an idea, however. "Is there any chance we
*could* find a map?"

Askit laughed sharply. "Only if we can find a surviving datapad with a
map pre--loaded. Good luck finding one, though; I believe Adrian had a
saying about this sort of thing... something involving needles and dried
grass."

"Well, I guess that ideas out the window," Darragh concluded. "But we
know the starport borders the city, so if we stick to the edges we'll
eventually start getting somewhere less urban. Sound good?"

"No, but it does sound like a working plan," Keffa replied. "Let's head
to the exit and then we'll see if we've got any better options."

Following that direction, they eventually emerged from a starport
littered with broken--down robots onto a darkened street that was
completely crowded with them. Some had simply stopped, some had crashed,
and others were smouldering from damage and malfunctions.

"Looks like the Hierarchy were serious about us," Keffa observed, biting
her lip.

"Fuck them," Askit said coldly, the source of his English skills plainly
obvious. "This is just me getting started."

Darragh watched him guardedly. "You're not thinking of repeating this
shit on other worlds as well?"

The little Corti shook his head. "This lacks finesse, but clearly the
virus plan has worked. Call this whole mess a proof of concept."

That the 'whole mess' was a cold, grey and dead city that had so
recently glimmered and glowed seemed not to matter to the Corti. The
hacker had a penchant for destruction, and took great pleasure in it,
which served him well in the company of pirates or Adrian Saunders, but
would be no good in civilised society. For the moment they'd still need
him, especially if they did somehow find some working electronics, but
Darragh began to wonder if it was wise to continue keeping him aboard
the habstation.

"There's a service road over there," Keffa pointed out, indicating a
small, easily overlooked pathway. "I bet it'll take us at least some of
the way around the spaceport."

"Good find," said Darragh. "But what are we going to do about food? I
don't think we have enough to keep us fed for however long we'll be
stuck here."

"There'll be public food dispensers," Keffa reminded him. "I guess we'll
have to break them open, though."

Darragh nodded wearily. "I think we can manage that."

This was one area where their backgrounds overlapped; he'd spent years
working on the loading docks of a space station, while her upbringing
had involved less honest work. In both cases they'd never had quite
enough money to feed themselves, and had to get creative with the food
dispensers. Not that the lightweight vending machines were really built
to withstand a determined deathworlder in the first place.

"That's not your only source of food," Askit added. "This is not a
deathworld, so I suspect you can eat just about everything---flora *or*
fauna. A planet like this won't have any real predators, so you can
probably just shovel the animals into your mouths and munch away."

Keffa made a face. "Eugh!"

"Don't worry, we'll cook them first," Darragh promised her. "He's right,
though, the animals will be easy pickings. Like shooting fish in a
barrel, as the saying goes."

"I don't really eat much meat," Keffa reminded him. "And I'm surprised
the Corti even suggested it!"

Askit shrugged. "Having lived with Adrian for such a long time... let's
say I've gotten used to the idea."

The conversation dwindled as they embarked on their way along the
service road, careful to give the smouldering robots a wide berth as
they walked towards it.

"So about all the genocide," Darragh ventured at last. "This... all this
doesn't bother you?"

"Which part?" Askit asked. "The Gamel were already dead---I simply
sacrificed our original objective to save our own lives---and the
Hierarchy can just... get fucked. But now we're stuck on a broken--down
planet that I've just reverted to the stone--age, and I've got nothing
to keep my mind occupied. If I'd had more time and options, I'd have
made sure to keep our own things safe before deploying the virus.
*That's* what bothers me."

"Give it up," Keffa suggested. "He's not a human, so he's not going to
think the way we do."

"I will be blunt," the Corti replied, "there is no line I will not cross
to protect my own. Today that's you and Keffa---as well as myself, of
course---but tomorrow it may be my entire race. I despise the
Directorate, but I will not simply allow the Corti race to degenerate as
the Gamel have done."

Darragh cleared his throat, wondering just when the Corti hacker had
gone from expert cyber--criminal to galactic super--villain. "That's---"

"Nothing more than you'd do for your own race," Askit snapped, finishing
the sentence for him. "I was there when you heard about 'San Diego',
Darragh. I saw the anger in you, and we all know it had to be the
Hierarchy. They declared war on Earth, on *humanity*, so you can
consider this to be the beginning of our response."

Darragh was taken aback, especially by the sudden reference to San
Diego, and he didn't like that part of him was starting to think that
this response was justified. Now was hardly the time to start a debate
about the ethical implications of a war for survival, not when he had to
think about surviving their immediate concern. More uncomfortable
questions could be talked about later. "Let's just focus on getting the
hell out of this city."

‚ÅÇ

**Sector Six, Crash Zone**

**Aladyn**

Only a handful of hunters and elders had been present when the true
extent of Adrian Saunders' prowess had been revealed. The strange
creature had appeared swiftly on the heels of the Change when the people
were still recovering from the rolling thunder that shook the ground,
and the burning of the sky. Dispossessed and homeless, they had been
hunted by strange, hideous creatures with claws and fangs and blades
that burned, and as the world grew larger and angrier it had seemed
reasonable to assume the small, pale--skinned biped was just one more
horror to be fought. Given his small stature and lack of obvious natural
weapons, nobody would have ever imagined the creature to be a serious
danger, but the Agwarens had grown cautious and no longer took such
things for granted. He had spoken in their tongue when he had arrived,
that much was true, but that had only disturbed the Elders further, and
the hunters had been ordered to deal with the matter as only they could
do. Aladyn and Dalon had been there, and each had loosed a bolt that
should have taken the creature's life, but it had been faster and wilier
than anything else they'd ever hunted. Getting stabbed by those same
bolts had proven to be an extremely chastening experience, and while
none of the wounds had been serious they had been very demotivating.
They had come away convinced that if Adrian Saunders actually wanted
them dead, then dead they would have been, and a hesitant but mutually
beneficial relationship had slowly developed.

Truth be told, Aladyn had barely caught sight of the human at the
time---once when he'd taken the shot, and again when the bolt was thrust
into his leg---and had always marvelled at how easily he had been
overcome. Aladyn was much larger than Adrian, and considerably stronger
in matters of pure strength, but now that he walked with him he could
see that they had been poorly matched. An Agwaren hunted with patience,
finding a hiding place and settling in to wait for unsuspecting prey;
their size and weight precluded anything else. Adrian, by contrast,
seemed unusually comfortable in the jungle, passing nearly silently
across noisy ground with his attention seemingly on everything. He
seemed formidable even when compared to the snapping, clawing and
crawling things that had come before, and it was strangely comforting
that this particular monster was on their side.

"Dangerous," Dalon murmured, with a nod towards the creature ahead of
them.

"Pointy--end towards enemy," Aladyn murmured back, and shared a grin
with his companion. Their fighting instructor had quoted that maxim
daily as they went through their drills; at the time he'd been speaking
of spears, but the phrase could be applied to any situation where lack
of care could prove harmful, and seemed to neatly fit their dealings
with the human.

"There is still no sign of the lizards, though," Dalon returned, "and
there may never be. We know where they make their home, Aladyn, so it is
hard to see why we waste our time in this manner, and each moment brings
us closer to Kalen breaking his peace."

Aladyn spared a glance towards the third of their number, who'd trailed
them by several strides throughout their journey in an ongoing sulk. His
attention was obviously focused inward, rather than keeping an eye on
his surroundings as he should have been, but he had not been trained as
a soldier. Deteriorating under the weight of his grief, it was only a
matter of time before Kalen did something unpredictable and dangerous,
and Aladyn wondered if it might have been better to send him to his
family. Not that he had it in him to burn another body so soon, and even
Dalon had balked at the idea.

"Agreed," he said quietly, "I don't think he---"

Aladyn stopped as he noticed the blade in Dalon's hand, which had
appeared as if by magic, and his gaze focused on the human's back. There
was no aggression, as there might have been if Dalon planned something,
but rather a tension that turned Aladyn's eyes in the same direction. As
a soldier, he could see that something had changed, and as a hunter he
could see the universal tells that marked an elevated alertness. Adrian
had slowed his pace, had shifted his stance, and focused his attention,
and Aladyn found himself doing likewise. He stopped walking altogether
when a thin strip of metal appeared in the human's hand.

Not daring to speak, Aladyn strained his ears to hear something against
the busy sounds of the forest, but there was nothing that shouldn't be
there. He glanced askance at Dalon, who shook his head slowly, and
neither of them said a word. It was unfortunate that Kalen was less
prepared.

"What are you do---" he began, cut short as a Crawler exploded from the
undergrowth with its magic blade already hissing into life. The deadly
thing whirled up towards Kalen as he stumbled back, far too slowly to
evade even one of the creatures, let alone the half--dozen others that
launched themselves from hiding a heartbeat later.

Years of combat training had been drilled into Aladyn and Dalon, and it
was this that saved them from confusion. They stepped back into
formation, shoulder to shoulder with their mundane blades raised against
the star--magic of the enemy, knowing that survival demanded they struck
true and without delay. Strides away Kalen was screaming as a fiery
blade carved a sizzling path through his flesh, missing his vitals only
by a fingerspan, though the pain was clearly beyond mere words. The
blade jerked back suddenly as its bearer fell away, pushed back by the
sudden onslaught of a human in possession of a very sharp blade and an
equally bad mood, and it quickly became apparent that nothing could
disrupt an ambush like this bipedal explosion of fury and death. What
had started off as fast, coordinated, and precise turned into a mad
scramble to try and fend off this new threat that carved a bloody path
through one only because it was the shortest distance to the next.
Aladyn felt a cold knot in his belly as he realised that this was the
creature they'd nearly made their enemy.

"Get it together, Aladyn!" Dalon hissed as he took advantage of the
situation and thrust his own steel into the throat of one of the
monsters. The head came free as he twisted it sharply in a motion that
brought it to bear against the next. Aladyn was quick to follow, using
the creature's broken attention to cut into its gut as it floundered
between Adrian and Dalon, letting the putrid contents pour out onto the
jungle floor.

"God of Strife!" the remainder screeched in unison, no doubt a battle
cry to honour their evil god, even as they wilted and fell under
Adrian's relentless attacks. Little wonder that they'd make that shout
as they faced such a dire foe, but to Aladyn's eye they seemed to lose
the will to fight.

The same could not be said of Adrian Saunders, whose flurry of attacks
grew even angrier, slashing away arms and legs and conceivably more
important bits as he pressed the matter. If they planned a surrender it
was clear he was having none of it, but was set upon their absolute
destruction.

"Eat a dick, motherfucker!" he growled to the last, thrusting once more
to end the encounter. It fell to the ground, thrashing what limbs
remained until he drove the last breath from it with a crunch of his
boot, and with the exception of Kalen's agonised keening the quiet of
the jungle was restored.

Adrian withdrew his blade and wiped the bloodied length of steel against
his leg. "We must be near their lair," he declared, far calmer than he
had any right to be. "One of them anyway, since I think they're living
in small groups here and there."

Once more Kalen reminded them he was there. He gurgled, pressing his
hands tightly against the scorched flesh of his side, but otherwise
didn't move.

"Can you help him?" Aladyn asked.

Adrian shook his head. "I can barely patch up my own kind, I'm not about
to try it with yours."

Aladyn didn't think that either he or Dalon could be any better, since
their entire education had been in combat, tactics, and broad strategy,
and he was therefore more familiar with the art of ending lives than
saving them. Nevertheless he crouched down beside the fallen hunter and
inspected the extent of the injury.

"I don't think he'll die from this," he announced after a brief
examination. "It's shallow, and I think the burns make it hurt more than
you'd otherwise expect."

"At least he won't bleed out," mused Dalon.

"Plenty of pain, though," Aladyn replied. "But pain alone won't kill a
man."

"Great," Kalen grunted through clenched teeth. He gestured over towards
Adrian. "What's he doing, now!?"

Aladyn looked over to where the human was hovering over the corpses of
the Crawlers, just in time to see him crack open a skull to inspect the
insides. What it revealed was the usual sickening mush, along with some
unexpected glints of metal, and Aladyn realised that the human must be
searching for the previously described body--stealers. "I'd wager he's
trying to figure out what's going on."

"I thought he already knew!" Kalen hissed.

"He knows more than us," Aladyn replied, "but that doesn't mean he knows
everything. You find anything interesting in there, Adrian Saunders?"

"Yeah, I did," the human replied, sounding greatly troubled. "Don't
really know what to make of it, though I definitely have my guesses."

With a meaningful glance towards Dalon, Aladyn traded places at Kalen's
side so he could take a look at whatever Adrian was talking about. As
much as he might claim to be on their side, the human wasn't dispensing
information as Aladyn would have liked, and in such uncertain times it
was vitally important to know what was going on. As he'd seen from a
distance, the skull had been broken away to reveal a brain filled with
metal and grey ooze, which was more than Aladyn wanted to see and less
than he found helpful. "What exactly do you mean?"

Adrian looked up at him thoughtfully. "Remember what I told you about
the 'Change'?"

Aladyn nodded, recalling his explanation to the Elders. "That it's
caused by something too small to see, like what causes a sickness. In
you it makes you heal, but for our world it makes everything grow
instead. That's why we boil all our water, and cook all our food."

"Right. It makes these guys heal as well," Adrian replied. "You can see
it on their bodies---these blades'll fucking fall off once these limbs
start regrowing properly---but why are their brains all falling to bits?
Look at all this fucking ooze shit! I don't make a habit of looking
inside skulls, but I'm pretty sure this is all wrong."

That meant nothing to Aladyn. "I don't understand how---"

"They were moving, thinking and talking," Adrian interrupted. "Hard to
do if your brain is all fucked up. Unless you're not the one calling the
shots anymore."

"Body stealing," Dalon concluded, listening in from Kalen's side. "Am I
right?"

Adrian nodded. "I'd bet you are, mate. Just a different type than what I
was expecting. Jesus, this shit really is all kinds of fucked up, and
here I am in the middle of it. Again."

"Does this change things?" Aladyn asked, getting to the point.

Adrian considered it for a moment and then shook his head. "No, I don't
think it does. Just one more thing to think about."

"It changes *nothing*," Kalen replied sharply, speaking in spite of his
pain. "It doesn't matter how many creatures have their bodies stolen, we
*will* have our revenge!"

Adrian regarded him impassively, keeping his true thoughts to himself.
"Good to know. Right now we're going to grab these weapons, I'll show
you how to use them, and then we're going to push on towards the next
settlement. Sound good?"

Aladyn shared a glance with Dalon, who gave a barely perceptible nod.
"Yeah," he agreed, "it sounds good."

‚ÅÇ

**Sector Six, Crash Zone**

**Kama**

The comm--disc whined gently as it quickly spun up to create the
gyroscopic effect that aided the lifting motion. It was little more than
a silver disc with a hole in the middle, and there was little room for
the more advanced technology that was found in the other drones, so it
relied on the more basic forces of physics to aid what little could be
built in. There was a flash of silver as it rose from the paper--thin
pocket that normally housed it and met the beams of sunlight that
pierced the canopy, and the reflective gleam made it easy to see and
track from a distance. Out here that provided as much help as harm, as
anyone could see them, target them, and take them out, yet the Dastasji
had never been intended for this type of mission and lacked a sufficient
supply of the less conspicuous variety; this type was never intended to
be used in hostile territory. Not that there was any choice, of course,
the atmosphere was hot with all kinds of weird radiation, and even short
distance communications were strained. It was under these conditions
that the comm--discs had been quickly replicated for use in the
Expeditionary forces, and were now set above the jungle canopy every
\[two kilometres\] so that continuous contact could be maintained with
the starship. It was simply unfortunate that their design parameters
accounted for neither strong weather nor inquisitive beasts, either of
which could cut the connection and leave a team unmonitored until
communications could be restored.

Skizer stepped back to allow the disc to float upwards, slowly
accelerating until it passed through the jungle's verdant ceiling and
into the blue sky beyond. Then, under the watchful eye of Kama and Squad
Leader Razen, he tapped away at his datapad as diagnostics reported the
connection was sound. "Unit confirmed functional."

"Good," Razen replied flatly, as if he'd expected nothing less. "Push
on, everyone, and remain vigilant; we are about to enter Sector Six."

Had this been Kama's first foray into the sector, he might have been as
calm and steady as the rest of the Expeditionary force. There was no
doubt that tensions had ratcheted up a notch, or that there'd been an
equivalent increase in the attention paid to their surroundings, but
they were still filled with confidence born of ignorance. This sector
had its reputation, and they had all been briefed on the dangers they
might encounter, but only Kama understood what actually lurked in the
seemingly peaceful jungle. Not willing to take chances, he quietly
repositioned himself to a more central part of the marching formation.

At least Razen wasn't taking unnecessary chances. While most V'Straki
favoured action, he tended towards caution and strategy---traits that
had seen him progress along a leadership path---and he ordered another
scanner drone to be launched as an eye in the sky.

Skizer was quick to comply, launching the fourth of their five allocated
scanner drones into the lazy patrol overhead. They were considerably
larger than the comm--discs, and were painted a dark green that neared
black. Featuring a suite of basic sensor technology, they were a staple
on the battlefield where their recordings provided both strike teams and
Oversight with tactical options they would not otherwise have. Here they
served much the same purpose, spying out ambushes, dangerous beasts, and
challenging terrain from a comfortable distance; they'd saved more than
one Expeditionary force from the A.I.'s bio--drones.

"Found something," Skizer reported a moment later, and shared the
display with Razen and Kama. Shape recognition algorithms had been
configured to detect probable fauna, and had now focused in on several
deceased creatures some \[thirty meters\] off their route. "Large fauna,
multiple corpses identified. Analyse further?"

Razen nodded; most of the time it was just the local wildlife feeding on
each other, but the bio--drones were known carnivores and this sort of
thing could help them close in on a cluster of the accursed creatures.
Whatever else was on the planet, the A.I. appeared to use these beastly
things exclusively, meaning that each cluster destroyed was an
incremental step towards its ultimate defeat.

Kama's visor lit up with a navigation layer, indicating their best route
through the overgrown terrain, and the group moved carefully towards the
destination. Eyes were sharp, guns were up, and ears were alert for the
slightest sound as they reached a trampled area where the dead beasts
lay.

The scene was much as Kama had expected, although the sound of gagging
told him that he was mostly alone in this, but it had taken him by
surprise the first time as well. Each body was swarmed by fat white
grubs that filled the wounds and moved beneath the skin so that the dead
looked remarkably animated, and he knew that if he removed his
environmental gear the stench would be overwhelming.

"Activating deep scan," Skizer reported as he selected the corpses for
additional data gathering. This information would be fed back to the
Dastasji where trained operatives would help identify cause of death. It
was easy enough to see that something had carved the creatures open, but
it was important to know exactly what had done the carving.

"Oversight reports the wounds are caused by incisors and claws that
match our target," Skizer relayed after \[several minutes\].
"Eighty--six percent match to known samples. Given the environment,
there is far less confidence about actual time of death, but it has not
been long."

"Given our location, that is as good as certain," Razen reckoned. "We
must take this as evidence that the Artificial Intelligence has
bio--drones actively moving through this area."

"Wonderful," Kama muttered, keeping a suspicious eye on their
surroundings. The bio--drones were hideous, multi--legged abominations
that looked like an Igraen gone badly wrong. Basic genetic tests had
proven the link almost as soon as a sample had been delivered back to
the Dastasji, and it had been an odd bit of gossip that they were as
carnivorous as could be. Evidence pointed to heavy genetic tailoring, so
the consensus was that they were some kind of weapon that the Artificial
Intelligence had hijacked for its own purpose. It was lucky that they
were so frail, or this little war would be expecting a much different
outcome.

Razen was busy instructing Skizer on what needed to be done next. "Scan
the area for indicators of their movements; I want to give pursuit if we
can."

The scanner drones began circling in expanding circles as the Comms Tech
considered his scan data, relaying back and forth with Oversight as
information came in. "We can provide a general direction, but I cannot
say how far the trail will remain viable. If the Squad Leader permits, I
shall continue analysing the trail as we travel."

"Good enough," Razen replied, and relayed his updates back to Oversight
as the Expeditionary force moved along the path Skizer had set for them.
The good news was that the trail became more definite as they made
progress, but the loudening rush of flowing water did not bode well for
continued pursuit. The sound turned into a spectacle as they reached a
river of rapidly flowing water that was more froth and foam than visible
fluid. The Comms Tech was forced to admit an end to the trail as they
reached the water's edge.

"This is where we will make camp," their Squad Leader finally decided,
plainly irritated that the hunt had ended in failure, but with the
shadows growing longer and deeper, it was the right time to start
thinking about their sleeping situation. Not that Kama would be getting
any while the *Predator* could be out there.

His fellow Expeditionaries quickly established a perimeter that included
the water's edge and a semi--circle that extended some distance out from
it, making use of a stony outcrop to limit access from that particular
direction. Area lights were hung from overhead branches to flood the
encampment with light, something that would have been banned in most
combat zones, but had here a great utility in warding off nocturnal
wildlife; previous expeditions had found such encounters to be extremely
*educational*, and the standard procedures had been sensibly updated to
avoid any further incidents. Skizer made sure to launch the scanner
drones onto their patrol path before bunking down, giving them a route
that ran along the river and to the very edge of the lighted area.
Oversight would alert them if anything important was sighted, as would
the alarm that triggered whenever the communications went down. They
were as safe as they could hope to get, and most of the Expeditionaries
would sleep, even if they only slept lightly.

That didn't extend to Kama. A plethora of technology and a lifetime of
training were not sufficient to calm his nerves. The native sapients had
proven themselves dangerous enough with their primitive
bolt--shooters---and Kama suspected his enviro--suit was not likely to
withstand such bolts---and the Artificial Intelligence was a cunning
enemy with dangerous creatures at its disposal. Worst of all was the
Predator, whose ability to speak V'Straki marked it as a creature of
higher intelligence, and who Kama rightly feared more than the entire
Igraen armada. At least he knew what the Igraens were all about, even if
it was an abomination; the Predator was just a bundle of terrifying
mysteries.

With the intention that he would at least be one of the first to see any
alarms, he set down his mobile hut next to the Comms Tech and struck up
conversation. "Nothing interesting out there, Skizer?"

"No," he answered, his eyes stuck to the video feed being transmitted by
the scanner drones. "Some mid--sized fauna is keeping its distance, as
expected, but nothing else."

*Nothing that wanted to kill them*, Kama translated. That was good to
know, but he didn't entirely trust that the scanners were good enough to
detect absolutely everything in the area, especially things that were
smart enough to control starships. Last time he'd been out here, it'd
been the drones that went offline first, followed swiftly by the Comms
Tech and Squad Leader, leaving the rest of the force blind and confused.

"This jungle, though," Skizer continued, "is certainly worthy of Ekkel's
name for it. I was studying the maps, and there are crashed starships
everywhere in this region, most of them recent in spite of the
jungle--growth."

"It is the whole planet that is named Strife," Kama corrected him,
although he otherwise agreed with Skizer's assessment. When Kama's first
Expedition had entered the jungle, he'd been astounded by just how wild
the place truly was, but there was already a notable difference in the
jungle. Everything was bigger, angrier, and more desperate---and that
was just the plants---and he hoped that Oversight was planning to deploy
a management strategy sooner rather than later, because he couldn't
imagine what it'd be like in another local year. *At least three times
as dangerous*, he reckoned. *Maybe more.*

He was close enough to hear the datapad beep a notification, and studied
Skizer's face as the Comms Tech went through the information it
provided. "An unusual clustering of fauna has been detected---" he began
to explain, before another beep interrupted him and he rose to his feet
in alarm. "Organic with technological indicators! Bio--drones!"

"Send a single scanner drone for more information," Razen ordered, his
attention now fixed on his Comms Tech. "Maintain maximum functional
distance, I do not want to lose a drone to these things."

Skizer did as he was told, and a single drone broke from the formation
to venture further into the darkness. The camp was filled with a pensive
silence---everyone had the sense that something was about to happen, and
every hand was on a gun---and it seemed an eternity until Skizer finally
gave his report. "Target scan complete... they are all dead."

Kama shared a look with Razen, but he didn't speak; they both knew that
there wasn't much out here could take down a group of the enemy.

"Cause of death?" Razen pressed.

"More detailed scans will be necessary for Oversight to ascertain that,"
Skizer replied. "Shall I send more drones?"

Razen gave the order, and the remaining drones departed in the direction
of the first. More time passed as Skizer directed their work, and the
camp quickly transformed into a new state of readiness.

"Tactical assessment suggests that they were completely overwhelmed,"
said Skizer, relaying the information returned by Oversight. "There are
signs of fusion weaponry, as we can expect, in addition to the augmented
variety, but the standard weapons are all missing. Medical assessment
suggests stabbing and slashing wounds as cause of death, and one corpse
has had the skull sliced open with greater care than one would expect
from combat."

"I think we should assume the primitives are adapting," Kama suggested,
hoping it was true. He knew it was unlikely; though obviously
intelligent, the natives lacked the speed and coordination necessary to
overcome the bio--drones, and even if they could manage a victory, there
would have been a lot more bodies.

"Yes," Razen replied, though he shared a meaningful look with Kama,
"that would seem likely. We shall have to be more wary of them from now
on."

"Oversight suggests there may be a lair nearby," Skizer relayed. "Our
orders are to conduct a search in case there is intelligence to be
gathered. The nearest primitive settlement may also confirm what
happened here, but it will take us a half--day to reach it from here."

The Squad Leader took a moment to confirm the orders on his own datapad,
stared at it a while, and then nodded. "It is as you say," he said,
though Kama strongly suspected that it wasn't. "Tomorrow would seem to
be a very busy day for us," he continued more loudly for the benefit of
the whole group. "Rest well, because we will all rise early."

‚ÅÇ

**Adrian Saunders**

Reaching the settlement by nightfall would have been ambitious at the
best of times, but the Agwarens moved slowly in spite of their size, and
carrying a partially crippled companion was more of an impediment than
he'd expected. Given their relatively poor night--vision, walking the
jungle at night was out of the question, and Adrian would be damned if
camping in the open was an option. Animals with brain bugs were bad
enough, but mind--controlled Hunters was worse, and he would be on edge
all night without a solid wall between him and the horrifying outside
world. As things stood, they'd stumbled across the crashed Hunter ship
at the last possible moment, leaving them in little doubt as to where
they'd be staying the night.

"You want us to *sleep* in one of those places?" Aladyn asked
sceptically. The vessel had once been similar in configuration to Spot,
but only part of it had survived the crash landing. It looked abandoned,
though he was paranoid enough that appearances counted for little, and
was overgrown with such extensive vegetation that it seemed an ancient
ruin; none of that mattered, though, because while it was useless as a
starship it still had a solid metal hull and they were light on options.

"It's got four walls," Adrian replied, "and it doesn't look like
anyone's home. If you'd prefer to sit around in the jungle like a
painted target, though... well... that's on you."

"He has a point," Dalon replied, speaking to Aladyn. "And Kalen could
use the safety for his rest."

Adrian nodded, the decision seemingly made. "Sit tight then, I'll go
check it out."

For a moment it seemed like they might argue, but they quickly relented
and Adrian left the cover of the foliage for the lengthening shadows of
the wreck. He could see the damage more clearly as he drew
closer---massive punctures where the coilbolts had punched their way
through, and wide fractures where the hull had shattered on impact---and
that was the end of any speculation on its flight worthiness; this wreck
was here to stay.

The actual entrance was buried somewhere in the ground, but one of the
cracks widened enough that even an Agwaren could crawl inside. It
reminded him of a shallow cave: gloomy, heavy with humidity, and filled
the scent of rich earth. The floor, patched with rust, was angled
upwards at roughly twenty--degrees with a tilt to the left, so that the
lower side was slick with water and algae that trickled in from further
up the corridor. He kept to the high side, avoiding the slippery areas,
and moved as quietly as he could with one hand to the wall and the other
gripping the fusion blade that lighted his way; knowing the layout of
the ship, he set out for the nearest section that served as a form of
communal area.

That was not the nearest room, however. Most rooms were mostly sealed
shut, broken by the warped hull so that they could never again be opened
by conventional means. Others were open and empty except for the
technological detritus that lay everywhere, most of it thoroughly
destroyed. His destination was the last surviving room, quiet except for
the gentle trickling of water that inspired one of nature's oldest
needs. Taking a piss, however, was going to have to wait until after
he'd confirmed the room was empty of Hunters. Taking down a couple of
those things would be a lot fucking harder if he had his old fella
swinging in the breeze.

Figuring that they'd know he was coming by the glow of the fusion blade,
he suddenly leapt into the room, flashing the blade wildly through the
air. Its demonic glow cast deepened the horror that greeted him, the
twisted visages of the Hunter crew all the more dreadful when rendered
in deep shadow and orange glow. Adrian recoiled instantly, blade
flashing up to face the attack and his back to the wall. He was halfway
through springing into action when he stopped, realising that the
Hunters---or what was left of them---weren't going anywhere. They were
nothing more than husks; only the soggy, dark--brown carapaces remained
of the nightmares from beyond the stars. It was doubtful that they had
survived the crash, and anything edible had eventually been harvested by
the native fauna. Once cursory sweep of this final room had confirmed
that there was nothing left to worry about, he finally answered nature's
call, and returned to the Agwarens.

"We're good," he told them. "Nothing much left in there, and the former
crew aren't in any state to complain."

"How fortunate we are," Aladyn responded cynically as he and Dalon
helped Kalen into the wreckage. It was true in spite of his cynicism,
however; if it hadn't been for their timely discovery, they would have
been spending the night in the ever--darkening jungle.

Adrian scrutinised the tree--line with one last, lingering gaze,
wondering if any malicious eyes were watching him. If there was, then it
was nothing he could see, and nothing he could hear, and didn't bear
thinking about. "This way," he said, rejoining the others with his blade
once more lending the light. "I have a cosy little room already picked
out, but I reckon I'll have your help to evict the current residents."

"I thought you said it was fine?" Dalon asked warily.

"He said they were dead," Aladyn replied. "He wants us to move their
corpses."

Adrian's lack of sleep was as much as he'd expected. He laid down in
darkness, but the fusion blade was always at hand, and his ears were
always pricked for the slightest sound. The walls were no protection
against an overactive imagination, but it'd been a long time since he'd
slept somewhere he hadn't first rigged with booby traps and alarms. That
meant that, on all of Agwar, the Shelter was more or less the only place
he could get some proper shut--eye.

"What is it?" Aladyn asked.

After a moment, Adrian realised whom the Agwaren was addressing. "What's
what?"

"I can feel your tension from here," Aladyn replied. "You've been on
edge since I've met you, but it's somehow worse in the dark."

"Paranoia," Adrian said. "You spend enough time in constant danger, and
you'll never stop looking over your fucking shoulder."

Part of it was, of course, that he didn't entirely trust the wreckage as
a defensible position, no matter what he'd actually told the Agwarens,
but he also had little trust for his companions themselves; they'd tried
to kill him once, and that sort of thing was hard to forget. There was
also the matter of Kalen's pain--filled moans and groans, which reminded
him altogether too much of his deployment to the Middle--East.

"A tortured spirit can twist a man's mind," Aladyn replied, sounding as
though he was quoting something. "We are not blood--kin, Adrian, but it
is a common belief amongst my people that shared survival forges deeper
bonds. You do not need to look over your shoulder when you have comrades
to protect your back."

"Yeah," said Adrian, feeling strangely settled, "we have something like
that too. It's important."

Dawn came sooner than expected, and Adrian realised that he must have
slept a little bit at least. It'd been a matter of closing his eyes one
moment, and opening them the next, only to discover that time had passed
in--between. Even with the cool mist that settled on everything, the
morning light was a welcome reprieve, and Adrian stepped outside as the
first few rays were breaking their way through the canopy. It was these
moments, when the jungle began to stir for the day, that he found it
easiest to forget that he was beset with problems, and was stranded on
an alien world. Sensing it as the calm before the storm, he leaned back
against the hull of the Hunter ship and gazed out into the chirping and
croaking jungle; he knew this would be the last moment of pleasantness
he'd experience for quite some time.

"Long way from Mildura," he said to himself, thinking back to how far
he'd come from his hometown. He wondered whether it would have changed,
now that alien life and space travel were established facts, and figured
it'd probably be much the same; even big things moved slowly in rural
Australia, probably owing to most people just not giving a fuck.

Aladyn emerged from the split in the hull and over at him. "Say
something?" he asked, as he stepped out into the sunlight and began a
series of stretches.

"Just waxing nostalgic," Adrian admitted. "I've been away from home for
a long time."

Aladyn nodded. "It looks like this place, then?"

Adrian snorted. "Fuck no, mate. We do have jungles like this, but my
home itself couldn't look more different. More plains, fewer trees, and
a lot more heat."

"There were plains here, recently," Aladyn replied as he finished his
stretches. "Not that you'd ever know from how it looks now."

He grunted as he released his waters against the side of the ship. "I
take it you intend to return to your world once you're done with mine?"

Adrian considered the jungle for a while. "Nah," he finally said, "don't
think I'd fit anymore. Christ, you drink a fucking lake or something?"

"Some of us have the decency to go *outside*," Aladyn retorted. "I
understand your meaning. I was once a leader of my city's fighting men.
Now my city is gone, my people are gone, and both I and my world have
changed beyond comprehension."

Aladyn had, without knowing it, highlighted another reason Adrian
couldn't go back to Earth; the same reason he needed to stop Jen from
doing it as well. He could see what was happening here, and it didn't
take a genius to figure that something similar would be unfolding on
Cimbrean and Affrag. Maybe it wouldn't be the same in each case, but the
consequences of letting the same plague loose on Earth were too
horrifying to even consider; anything that had the potential to
completely up--end a planetary ecosystem was not something he wanted to
introduce back home. He sighed, wondering whether he'd ever run out of
shit to worry about.

"I've got a few things to deal with before I can even think about going
back home," he told the Agwaren.

‚ÅÇ

"Yes," Aladyn agreed as he tucked himself away, "the other settlement to
begin with. When we get there, I should be the one to do the talking.
Your mere presence will confuse things enough.

"Seems like the right idea," Adrian replied, and turned towards the
crack as Dalon emerged with Kalen in tow; the latter looked worse for
wear, but it was clear that a night of sleep---and the Cruezzir that
covered everything---had worked wonders. "You're good to go?"

Dalon nodded. "We are."

"That way," Aladyn indicated, pointing in the general direction they'd
been heading the previous day. "We should reach by afternoon, provided
we have no more mishaps."

Adrian began walking, taking the lead as he had the day prior, and froze
on the second step. He couldn't tell you how he knew, but *something*
was out there.

Dalon understood immediately. "Where is it?"

"Not sure," Adrian admitted, staring intently at the jungle in search of
anything that was out of place. He let his eyes take it all in, knowing
that they'd seize on what was important, while his ears quested for
something to pin the strange sensation on. Understanding dawned the very
moment that he saw the shine of plastic and glass: a V'Straki drone had
found them, and that meant its masters would soon be on their way.
"Shit."

One moment later and Aladyn's bolt punched straight through its fragile
chassis, pinning the remnants to a tree.

"That thing was of the enemy," the Agwaren said. "But the star--bird is
now dead."

"Not a bird," Adrian corrected, "just bad news. It means they know
exactly where we are."

"Ah," said Aladyn, taking his meaning. "Then we should really start
moving."

‚ÅÇ

**Sector Six, Crash Zone**

**Razen**

"That is not a good sign," said Razen, in what he imagined must be the
most significant understatement this backwater planet had ever seen. The
Comms Tech had been conducting basic surveillance of their objective
while the rest of the Expeditionaries were making preparations for their
day, but Skizer had been checking the local crash sites for signs of
recent habitation, not trying to discover alarming news about who their
neighbours were. Skizer barely had time to reach Razen before contact
was lost with the drone, but by then the video feed had already been
sent back to Oversight.

Given that the footage had shown the 'Predator' colluding with the
primitives, Razen expected he'd soon receive a very agitated comm--link
from whoever was currently on duty. It really wasn't the best start to
his day.

"Let me impress upon you, Comms Technician Skizer," Razen hissed
quietly, "just how much you want to remain silent about your discovery.
There is no need to incite a panic."

He turned to Kama, that wretch who'd somehow survive the last encounter
with the strange creature. "Do you not agree, Kama?"

Kama hesitated. "Yes, Squad Leader... we should focus on our true enemy.
Interacting with the Predator will just cause further problems."

Razen thoroughly agreed, but gave a simple nod to the affirmative. It
was bad enough that the primitives kept disrupting the mission, but the
Predator was another matter entirely. The recordings already confirmed
that its clothing greatly reduced infra--red emissivity, countering one
of the main visual aids the V'Straki used in their visors, and the fact
that the group of troublesome creatures had numerous fusion weapons in
their possession strongly suggested that they'd just discovered cause of
death for the A.I.'s bio--drones. However it added up, camping in the
jungle was going to be even more unpleasant.

The communications request arrived mere moments later, long before he
could deliberate any further, and Razen answered without delay. "This is
Squad Leader Razen."

"Overseer Jark," came the reply, and Razen winced. He knew Jark
personally, and while Razen generally got along with everyone, Jark was
a different story. He was the opposite of personable, and was about the
last person Razen wanted watching his back. "Please confirm your
status."

"Breaking camp now," Razen dutifully reported. "Secondary objective has
been identified, but became aware of our observation. We are now down to
four scout drones. Distance is significant, including challenging
terrain, so pursuit is likely futile at this time."

"That is our estimation as well," Jark replied. "Attend the noted
location, and inspect the area for anything that might provide us with
further information about the 'Predator'. A bio--sample, if possible."

"Understood," Razen confirmed.

"Given the nature of the footage," Jark continued, "you should refrain
from clearing the native population where possible. There is no need to
antagonise the Predator further."

"And if we confirm they have advanced technology?" Razen asked, knowing
that the normal policy was to purge the group in question; the V'Straki
could not allow another faction to interfere with their war efforts.

"Remove it from them," Jark replied. "Minimise native casualties if
possible."

Once more indicating that he understood the instructions, Razen
terminated the communique. It had not been as bad as he'd expected, but
that was probably due to the interest in the 'Predator'. He'd
half--expected Jark to send him after the creature at the barest hint of
an opportunity, but at this point that was probably just a matter of
time. He turned his attention back to Skizer and Kama, who were still
waiting for his orders. "Attend to your duties. No word of this sighting
is to circulate amongst the men."

"Squad Leader..." Skizer began.

A sharp look from Razen was enough to cut him short. "Remain vigilant,
Comms Technician," he said tersely. "Kama, you will ensure the others
act in accordance with an increased threat level. Weapons readied at all
times; engagement protocol 'Overkill' is in effect. I do not intend for
this Expedition to become an imitation of your previous debacle."

Kama snapped to attention, then turned to convey the orders to the rest
of the force. The Overkill protocol would ensure that just about
anything they encountered would be shuffled off the mortal coil with
extreme prejudice, and would probably lead to speculation amongst the
men, but Razen judged that it would also make them more focused.

He was proven right by how quickly they broke camp. The usual chatter
gave way to functional silence, with each man focused on getting his
weapons readied for instant use, and they were soon ready to force their
way across the river.

A simple scan was enough to confirm that wading was out of the question.
"Water exceeds safe depths," Skizer reported, "but there are no shallows
within easy distance. Line--crossing is the recommended option."

"No threats detected?" Razen checked, though he was certain Skizer would
have let him know if something had appeared.

"No threats detected," Skizer confirmed. "It should be safe to deploy a
line."

Razen nodded, and turned to Artez, the smallest Expeditionary in the
force. "Take a guideline across and mount a bridging line," he told the
red--chip. "Kama will ensure your equipment pack is carried across."

Artez moved without complaint, first giving over his personal equipment
to Kama, and then setting about getting the guideline across the river.
It was a matter of securing one end, firing the other at a suitable
target on the other side---in this case a tree---and scrambling across
with a more reliable cable wrapped around his waist. Artez was small,
and this gave him the advantage for this type of task, so that he had no
trouble where Razen and other larger V'Straki would have simply fallen
into the river.

With only a little more work, a simple line bridge was constructed, and
the crossing would be made in stages while the other Expeditionaries
would provide fire--support from whatever side of the river they
happened to be on. It was a tactic that had been developed on Hannyth,
the world of many rivers, where the native tactics had made crossing a
river a dangerous affair.

"Leave the line here," Razen commanded, once the last of the
Expeditionaries were across; odds were good that they'd be coming back
this way, and that they may be moving with haste. "We shall pick it up
on the way back."

Their first stop was the site where the 'Predator' had been sighted. All
the scout drones were sent to scan the area as they approached,
documenting everything in absolute detail. That was more than enough to
confirm the absence of just about anything, but the A.I. could be
tricky, and the 'Predator' was a total mystery, so there was no harm in
being overly cautious.

There were precious few positive things to be said about the crashed
starship. Even from the wreck it was easy to see it had been designed
for appearance more than function, and the considerable battle damage
did little to redeem it. It had clearly been rapidly overtaken by the
jungle, with no signs of continuous habitation, and Razen was reasonably
certain that the 'Predator' had only been visiting.

"I have a drone inside," Skizer reported. "I am noting elevated levels
of uric acid in the main corridor, and two aged corpses of bio--drones
deposited in a small room. Some genetic indicators to confirm that the
primitives were here."

"Shelter of convenience, then," Razen interpreted.

"It appears that way," Skizer agreed. "Oversight concurs with that
assessment."

*Good to know*, Razen thought with some annoyance. "I think we have seen
everything there is to see. Return your drone for immediate departure."

‚ÅÇ

He turned to Kama and gave instructions to have the others prepare for
the journey towards the settlement, privately hoping that the 'Predator'
had elected to go somewhere else entirely. Razen knew the creature had
value, and that capturing it was a secondary objective, but he would be
happier if he never saw it again; however it might feel about the A.I.,
it clearly favoured the natives over the V'Straki.

Kama delivered the orders immediately, leaving Razen to wonder when he'd
started relying on the disgraced red--chip. Kama had been considered to
be a dependable soldier before his shameful encounter with the
'Predator', but that incident had effectively ended his military career,
and it was only due to the continued presence of the 'Predator' that he
had any use at all.

"Oversight," Razen began as he opened a link back to the Dastasji, "do
you receive?"

"This is Overseer Jark," the Overseer replied. "Please confirm your next
objective."

"The settlement is the closest significant objective," Razen replied.
"The Expedition will head there first, and scan and interrogate the
natives. Further decisions will be made with the resulting information."

"Action approved, Squad Leader," Jark confirmed. "We will be
monitoring."

Razen signed off in time to find the Expeditionary force ready for
another hard march; the settlement awaited.

‚ÅÇ

**Sector Six, Crash Zone**

**Adrian Saunders**

One maddening thing about the Agwarens was that their formal
introductions took way too fucking long. The request was simple
enough---medical aid for Kalen, and lodgings for the rest---but the
whole thing seemed to be taking forever. It wasn't completely
unexpected, given that the settlements hadn't been entirely peaceful
with each other, but Adrian had never been the patient sort and he was
still on edge after the scout--drone incident; it was probably smart of
Aladyn to have him wait in the jungle, but hopefully he'd be somewhere
more comfortable before the afternoon rainstorm arrived---he could
already smell it in the air.

Adrian tried to think about other things, making use of his vantage
point to watch the jungle as well as the settlement. Preferring the
trees to the ground, he was perched in the branches of a smooth--barked
giant with both of his legs swinging freely, but concealed by enough
foliage that he'd be hard to find even if you knew where to look. It was
far from comfortable, but he had more important considerations than the
well--being of his own arse. Seeing that Kalen got the help he needed
for one, and seeing the settlement prepare for the V'Straki for another;
if this was their destination then their time was very limited. No
matter where you went, it seemed like nobody took existential threats
seriously until it was already too late.

Finally he saw progress: a pair of larger Agwarens broke from the crowd
and took support of Kalen, leading him away towards the huts while
Aladyn stepped aside to allow Dalon room to demonstrate the fusion
blades claimed from the Hunters they had slain. Simply activating it was
enough to stir the crowd, but slicing clean through a solid wooden post
sent a wave of conversation through those present. Seizing on their
interest, Aladyn returned to speak once more, and it was obvious that
the spectacle had sped things along.

The meeting was still in progress when a familiar sensation swept over
Adrian. It was the same as it had been before, but this time Adrian knew
what he was looking for, and quickly spotted a formation of three small,
glossy shapes flit from the jungle and sweep across the settlement to
the great alarm of the locals. It took only a moment for them to circle
the village, after which they sped away as quickly as they had arrived,
long before anybody could load up a crossbow.

At least it had been enough of a shock to move things along, and it was
clear from Aladyn's wild gesticulations that he was explaining what they
had all just seen and why it was a problem. He hadn't needed a detailed
explanation to know that the 'star--birds' meant the V'Straki were on
their way, and that'd be what he was telling the locals, but only Adrian
really understood what had just happened. Knowing the V'Straki sensors,
it seemed likely that they'd now have the settlement layout, its
population, and details on any defences they might have. That,
unfortunately, also included the fusion--blades that Dalon had just
finished demonstrating.

Slipping between branches, Adrian dropped to the ground with as much
speed as he dared; judging by the flightpath of the drones, the V'Straki
approach would pass nearby, and it'd be a really bad time to be stuck in
a tree.

Acting fast, he planted the cloaking device that Mando had built for
him, covering it under some jungle debris in a shallow depression beside
a thick tree root. It wasn't reliable as cloaking devices went---even
with just their drones, the V'Straki were certain to detect it---but
used properly it could still be helpful.

Under other circumstances he might have headed for the settlement, but
that would only confuse things right now, and give the V'Straki
something else to take advantage of. In any event, they had seen him
with the Agwarens and had no reason to suspect he'd be hiding in the
jungle, and there was nothing to be gained by putting yourself exactly
the enemy expected you to be. Adrian had relied on stealth, surprise,
and their own hubris to fight them on previous occasions, knowing that a
stand--up fight would be completely stupid.

Right now he was just trying to put together some options. The cloaking
device would distract them, giving the Agwarens a few extra minutes to
prepare, and Adrian the opportunity to... do something. It was a plan in
progress, and he could think about it once he wasn't standing in the
open.

At least he still had the benefit of the modified vacuum suit. Granted,
it wasn't in any condition to help him in hard vacuum, but it was a
serviceable rain--coat to which he'd added a hood. Having created it
after one particularly miserable excursion, Adrian had mainly intended
it to cope with the sudden downpours, but he'd also discovered that the
insulation was heavy enough to let him blend in with the humidity, and
the depressing brown was surprisingly similar to that found throughout
the jungle. It just went to show that sometimes good things *did*
happen.

He pulled the hood up over his head, tightening it so that only his eyes
would show, and slowly picked his way through the heaviest bit of
vegetation he could find---a squat bush--like bit of ground--cover with
big, droopy leaves---while his senses remained tuned for that telling
sensation. He felt it a lot sooner than he would have liked, while he
was still within sight of the cloaking device, as he crawled from the
bush and into the hidden spaces between the rampant roots of a towering
tree.

Peeking out to get the lay of things, he saw the V'Straki progressing as
a group, with four drones flying in an overhead formation. It was hard
to judge their number through the heavy jungle, but he'd counted
thirteen in the group responsible for purging Aladyn's village, and
there'd been thirteen in the group he'd encountered that other time, and
there was no reason to expect a difference here.

He laid out his equipment in front of him, frowning at how little it
seemed when presented that way. A cluster of makeshift knives, a fusion
blade, and some smooth and flat river stones were all he had, in
addition to the remote control for the cloaking machine. He peeked out
once more, ducking back in almost instantly as he saw the inbound scout
drone, and snatched up the remote control. It looked like things were
getting started a little sooner than he'd bargained for.

‚ÅÇ

**Sector Six, Crash Zone**

**Kama**

Both Razen and Skizer had been on edge, so any movements in the jungle
were followed by a quick survey with a scout drone, if only to give them
peace of mind. It had happened five times now, with each prior time
turning out to be some hideous form of native life. This time the drone
was halfway there when a sudden power fluctuation flared up before
completely vanishing, but fortunately not before the drones had
triangulated the position: too damned close for comfort.

Razen was clearly unsettled by the procession of events. It was bad
enough that he'd discovered the primitives had functional
fusion--blades---certainly the result of the Predator's
interference---and that Razen's force was now required to forcibly
confiscate them. Kama knew this meant the Predator had picked a side,
and that the V'Straki were about to start shooting at it. This had
seemed like a bad idea *before* the sudden power fluctuation; now it
seemed like it not only knew they were coming, but that it knew where
they were coming *from*, and that was a big problem by any measure.

Kama stood nearby, listening to Razen's quiet conversation with Skizer.

"This location," the Squad leader said, tapping at it on Skizer's
datapad, "was not fully mapped in the drone fly--over?"

"No, Squad Leader," Skizer confirmed. "The focus of their reconnaissance
was on the settlement and the immediate surroundings. This area was
outside of that."

‚ÅÇ

"It seems unlikely that the primitives have set a trap for us," Razen
mused, "but it is not the only thing out here. Given that we performed
the fly--over at the last possible moment, we are faced with one of two
options: that our enemy is simply incredibly fortunate, or that he has a
disturbingly deep insight into our tactical thinking."

Skizer grew visibly tense. "Then should I send the scout drone to
investigate?"

"Send two," Razen instructed. "The second will observe the first. If
there is a trap, it is vital we know what we are dealing with."

The Squad Leader waited impatiently while Skizer executed the order, and
Kama noted that the rest of the force were growing increasingly agitated
by the unplanned delay. Naturally they'd been told nothing, but they
were beginning to speculate, and some of their guesses were
uncomfortably close to reality. It didn't help that Kama was being
included in things that should otherwise be outside his area of concern,
and Skizer's uncharacteristic reticence was raising questions.

"The scanners are not reading anything," Skizer reported grimly. "To be
more specific, they are failing to report what should actually be there.
It is almost certainly a small cloaking device."

"The drones are unable to penetrate it?" Kama asked, speaking in a low
voice as he edged closer to the pair.

"Not easily," Skizer replied as Razen glared at Kama. "With both drones,
I am able to generate a low fidelity sound--map that should, in theory,
give us a three--dimensional picture of what is hiding in there."

He paused, suddenly looking even more worried. "Which is what I would
have done, had I not just lost contact with both drones."

"By the shining light of the Emperor!" Kama cursed; this was starting to
look a lot like his previous Expedition. "Squad Leader, I urge you to
keep the remaining drones in reserve!"

"I do not need instruction from you, Kama," Razen growled, and returned
his attention to Skizer. "What happened? They must have detected
*something*!"

"Whatever it was must have been quiet and able to avoid triggering the
standard alerts," Skizer replied, skimming the detailed sensor logs.
"Ah. They were damaged by environmental debris."

"Rocks," Kama interpreted. "They were smashed out of the air by rocks.
That explains why they did not evade."

"Explain," said Razen, looking to Skizer.

The Comms Tech frowned. "It is a limitation in the software," he said.
"Our programming is complex, since we do not allow our software to
learn, so the drones assume the natural environment is static for the
sake of simplicity. It was a perfectly acceptable solution against
Igraen tactics and weaponry, which they *will* automatically evade."

"Less helpful against thrown rocks," Razen replied, neatly summarising
the design flaw that gave the primitives the upper hand. He growled. "I
do *not* like being on the defensive. It is time to take control of the
situation! Kama, you will select three red--chips to be deployed here,
here and here"---he tapped the screen indicating where they should be
positioned relative to the target zone---"while Skizer will use the
remaining drones to provide them with a targeting solution. We shall see
how the enemy likes a concentrated blast of Zheron pulse--fire!"

Kama didn't even hesitate when making his selection, and a moment later
his three least favourite members of the Expeditionary force were
scuttling through the vegetation towards their allotted vantage points.
Perhaps they'd succeed, and the deadly threat would be negated, or maybe
they'd all die horrible deaths; either result worked for Kama.

With the drone supply down to these last two, however, Skizer was being
much more careful. Losing these would mean the failure of his role, and
that wouldn't look good for his career. The drones remained as far back
as he dared keep them, so that they would overlook the snipers as well
as the target coordinates, and beamed out targeting information a moment
later. It was a standard tactic amongst the V'Straki ground forces to
use this for long--range shots, but it served equally well when blazing
a deadly path through a mess of obscuring foliage. Smoke rose from the
incinerated vegetation as the three opened up, and the target erupted
into a sea of red fire as a wave of Zheron annihilated everything near
it. As per the Overkill protocol, they did not stop for some time.

"Mission is a success," Skizer reported once it was over. "The cloaking
field has been eradicated. Unfortunately nothing was detected inside."

Kama kept his eyes on the jungle, raising his gun ever so slightly. A
quick glance towards the Squad Leader confirmed that Razen did not look
pleased, and Kama could guess why: if there wasn't anything being
cloaked, then the whole field was only a distraction, and they'd played
straight into the enemy's hands.

"Return to the group," Razen instructed the three soldiers, speaking
quietly over the group's communication network. "Keep your weapons ready
for anything."

"Squad Leader..." Skizer ventured.

Razen turned to him. "Use the drones to scan for movement, and get me an
open link to Oversight."

Skizer shook his head. "Communications just went down. I suspect the
wind might have knocked out a comm--disc."

Kama agreed, but it was clear that Razen wasn't taking anything for
granted. "By the Emperor!" he snarled in frustration, "of all the
times... we must assume this disruption is intentional. You will need to
re--establish communications."

Skizer blanched; that meant he'd be venturing back the way they'd come,
trying to find the point of failure, with only a handful of soldiers to
protect him. "Yes, Squad Leader."

"And Kama," Razen added, "you will lead his escort"

It was hard to say what Kama would have enjoyed less. Escort duty had
him traipsing back through the jungle with fewer allies, but it also
meant that he was headed away from the settlement and the likely
position of the 'Predator'. Razen had delegated command of the scout
drones to another red--chip, using them to protect the group that
remained while they fortified an elevated position against attack.
Somehow an attack had turned into a defence, and Kama wondered whether
this had been the enemy's plan all along.

It didn't really matter; he could only try and control his own
situation. "Keep watch for any motion," he told the clueless red--chips
who accompanied them, although they made a show of ignoring his every
command. Things might have been different if they knew what they were
really up against, but Razen had been terrifyingly clear on the
consequences for divulging such information. Now that the threat had
apparently been dealt with, this was, as far as the others were
concerned, a routine maintenance exercise, and they were very obviously
bored.

At least Skizer wasn't bored; he knew enough to be scared stupid, and he
stuck close to the only person he could speak freely around. "Do you
think it might be watching us?"

Kama ran his tongue across his teeth as his nerves tingled. "I sincerely
hope not. For what it is worth, I do not believe it caused this outage."

"The timing cannot be ignored," Skizer reminded him.

Kama nodded. "I know."

He knew something was up when Skizer's eyes remained fixed on his
datapad, rather than on the jungle. "Find something?"

"Lost something," Skizer replied bleakly. "The connection to Razen. We
are currently cut off from our Squad Leader *and* Oversight."

Kama stared back towards the settlement, knowing they were too far to
hear anything on a good day, and right now the wind was carrying the
sound away from them. If something had happened to Razen, then they now
had no way of knowing what it was. "Our orders," he said carefully, "are
to re--establish communications with Oversight."

"Agreed," said Skizer. "No doubt we will receive further orders from the
Dastasji once we have done so."

Kama nodded, and picked up the pace a bit; hopefully the broken link
would be a long walk away. "Then let us not keep them waiting."

‚ÅÇ

**Sector Six, Crash Zone**

**Adrian Saunders**

It was often said that plans never survived first contact with the
enemy, but that *planning* was essential. Adrian had none of the first,
and sweet fuck all of the second, but he did have a general sort of
objective that might have been more useful with a little more time to
think things through.

He hadn't moved either, not since that focused cannonade of Zheron
energy had annihilated the cloaking device and everything around it. It
was an unfortunate fact that the V'Straki were a shitload more cunning
than most aliens, and they'd clearly started responding to perceived
threats with extreme aggression. Not surprising, but it certainly ruled
out charging in with a frontal attack.

Right now he was stuck, knowing that they were ready for the slightest
sign of something worth shooting at, and waiting for the reprieve of
darkness and the oncoming storm, and hoping that the five who'd split
off weren't stalking the jungle in search of the poor,
dumb--as--dog--shit human hiding between some fucking tree roots. All
told, this encounter could have been going a lot better for him.

*What now, Saunders?* he asked himself, spying out as much of their
little fortification as he dared. They'd cut apart some fallen trees and
had shifted them into makeshift barricades that provided more ample
cover from would--be attackers such as himself, but it now seemed that
the soldiers had grown complacent behind their walls. Obviously they
thought the two overhead drones, plus that weird CD--type thing, would
be enough to warn them of unseen dangers.

Whatever they'd been expecting, it wasn't the stone--tipped bolt that
punched through their comrade's face--plate and drove a spray of blood
and brain out the other side; if Adrian had harboured any doubts about
what it might be like to get hit by one of those things, they were all
gone now.

The whole world seemed frozen as the corpse swayed in some bizarre dance
of death, with the V'Straki too stunned to react to what they were
seeing, but all eyes were on the dead man, and that finally left Adrian
free to act.

He started by getting the fuck out of his hole and throwing a whirling
blade towards the most obvious of the three flying objects: the silvery
disc. With a year of hunting on his side, the thin strip of metal sliced
a line across the disc and sent it careening into the jungle. It fell
out of sight as a second bolt thundered from the jungle and planted
itself, quivering, deep into the shoulder of the V'Straki commander.

The V'Straki stumbled and screamed, gripping at the shaft with one hand
while his other hung as limp as overcooked spaghetti, and the
half--drawn Zheron pistol fell away to the ground. If anyone had noticed
the sudden loss of their drone, it was clear they had other things to
think about; all remaining soldiers threw themselves into cover and
began returning fire.

Adrian's eye was on the Zheron pistol, now laying just out of reach of
the fallen V'Straki commander, but he was gaining ground now that their
attention was firmly turned in the direction of the assault. The sudden,
gurgling scream of an Agwaren reminded him that, even with surprise on
their side, the primitives had little chance against an organised push
from the resistance. They didn't know enough about the drones to see
them as important, allowing the V'Straki to shoot with deadly accuracy
without ever leaving cover themselves. Bolts tore past them, thudding
into trees and flying off into the jungle while the V'Straki soldiers
simply took their time. More screams served to underscore how badly the
Agwarens needed some help.

Adrian took advantage of their distraction to sneak closer, now creeping
up quietly on the fallen Commander and his pistol, a single throwing
blade drawn in case he needed to beat a hasty withdrawal. He couldn't
have been two strides away when, either by sense or by luck, the
commander turned to see Adrian making his final approach.

The creature gasped, moving its good hand from the bolt towards the
fallen pistol nearby, but Adrian's throwing blade was faster and
sharper, and passed clean through the Saurian's wrist before it could
make the distance. It screamed again, then louder as Adrian stomped on
the weapon.

"Guess it really is all in the fucking wrist!" he snarled as he snatched
up the Zheron gun and raised it towards the series of extremely shocked
V'Straki soldiers, giving the first no chance of escape.

The others sprang away, flipping up their visors to aim manually, but
Adrian was already on the move and the Agwarens were not slow to seize
an opportunity. A bolt smashed away the jaw of the first to break cover,
pinning it to a tree while its owner stumbled around in shock and
confusion that lasted only until a second bolt put an end to him.

Another took a bolt to the knee, flipping him around and sending him
sprawling with a cry of agony. The others dropped low, crouching as they
tried to maintain their cover and return fire both directions.

The rain began to fall.

Adrian's fusion blade sizzled as it flared to life, and he flung it
through the air as a lethal distraction towards the V'Straki defensive
line. They scattered as it swept past them, one of them dropping as a
Zheron double--tap seared a hole through its face and neck, and yet
another falling victim to the barrage of opportunistic crossbow bolts.
The last of them fled as the Agwarens thundered through the jungle and
leapt the barricade, stomping down hard on the mortally wounded V'Straki
they found there. Adrian fired after the fleeing enemy, missing narrowly
as the soldier sprayed Zheron pulses at the oncoming Agwarens, and
Aladyn narrowly avoided being one of those murdered by the deadly
energy.

Adrian fired a parting shot directly into the fallen commander, but
hesitated as crossbows rose in his direction.

"For fucks sake, Al!" he shouted. "Tell them to kill the fuckin'
star--birds, not me!"

"Let him go!" Aladyn roared at the other Agwarens. "He is *not* our
enemy!"

Adrian started giving chase the moment the crossbows dipped, knowing
there'd be no hope of finding the last V'Straki once the real rain
arrived. It was just fortunate that the V'Straki, like all advanced
races, were hampered by their own reliance on technology. They were a
product of their environment, trained for a war against a
technologically advanced enemy across many worlds, which produced a
rather different set of skills than those possessed by Adrian. As part
of the Australian Defence Force, he'd been trained for conflicts in the
shittiest deserts, jungles, and bombed--out cities Earth had to offer.
As totally fucked up as Agwar could get on a bad day, it still didn't
feel as dangerous as Earth.

Fuck, even an Agwaren huntsman could follow the trail the V'Straki was
leaving behind, even if they were so big and lumbering that you could
hear them coming from a mile away. Adrian, on the other hand, had come
to know this jungle, and he saw what the V'Straki intended long before
he laid eyes on the creature itself: one final ambush.

The V'Straki had taken the high ground atop a large, rocky outcrop,
against which leaned the rotting remains of a particularly massive tree.
He was crouched low, pressed against the tree for the additional cover
it would provide, with his Zheron rifle slowly tracking across the
direction he'd come from; clearly he was expecting to be followed.

Too bad for him that Adrian had already circled around---the sound of
rain made it easier to move unheard---and was now closing the distance
from the outcrop's steeper embankment. He'd already learned that the
range of Zheron energy sharply diminished in the rain, and he had to
make sure it was done in one shot; the surrounding vegetation would
provide little real cover from a Zheron rifle.

As if the weather somehow sensed how inconvenient it would be, the true
deluge began, rendering Zheron weaponry almost completely useless.

With no chance to ascend the outcrop unseen, Adrian dropped low and
slipped into hiding beneath the waist--high vegetation. He just needed
to be patient; either the V'Straki would move, or the rain would ease,
and Adrian would have another chance.

Perhaps due to the miserable rain, the V'Straki chose to move first.
With gaze remaining firmly on the jungle it had been surveying, it
carefully slipped down the steep embankment closest to Adrian, giving no
indication that it suspected any threat from this direction. It passed
him by, just a few feet away, and Adrian shot it in the back.

Stumbling forward with equal parts pain and surprise, it tripped and
fell to the ground with limbs sprawled. Adrian stepped over it, grabbing
the Zheron rifle away from its reach.

The wound bled freely, but it would not be fatal---even over that short
distance, the rain had taken too much strength from the Zheron blast for
that---and the V'Straki looked over its shoulder in raw terror. "Please
do not!" it choked out.

Adrian finished it off swiftly, trying not to think about it. War makes
monsters of men, but he wasn't the one murdering whole villages here,
and he wasn't equipped for taking healthy prisoners, let alone injured
ones. The 'God of Strife' had only one thing to offer his enemies.

He returned to the fortification with the rain still falling hard, and
found the Agwarens had been busy with dragging their dead back towards
the settlement. Only Aladyn and Dalon remained, hunkered down under the
nearest large branch, their crossbows readied for the first sign of
danger.

"Get it?" Aladyn asked as Adrian came into view.

Adrian nodded. "Yeah, how many you lose?"

"Six," said Dalos, grimacing at the number. "We have destroyed the
star--birds... they can no longer see us. That was how they knew where
to shoot, was it not?"

"Yeah," Adrian confirmed, and looked around in surprise. "All their
weapons are still here."

‚ÅÇ

"It took an argument," said Aladyn. "They saw the power of these
weapons, as we did, so it was only natural to want them. But I
remembered what you said about detecting star--weapons, and that these
creatures were only a fraction of the enemy's true power. Eventually
they believed me."

"Your plan seems to be in tatters," Dalon noted.

Adrian shook his head. "Nah, there'll be more on their way back at some
point. I don't think they'll be killing any of us when they've heard
what I've got to say."

Dalon grunted. "That seems optimistic. Why would they let you live after
this? Why would they let *any* of us live?"

"I know what they want," said Adrian, "and I kind of know how they
think. If you can make sure the village is safe, then I can manage these
arseholes."

"And if you die, we all die," Dalon replied. "I do not love this plan,
Adrian. Lacking a better one, however..."

"We will look after the village," Aladyn finished, already starting to
leave. "Good luck, Adrian."

"You too, mate," Adrian replied, and watched them leave. They were fully
out of sight when he unclipped the commander's communicator and
activated it. "Is there anyone listening?"

‚ÅÇ

**Sector Six, Crash Zone**

**Kama**

"Who is this?" Skizer asked before Kama could stop him; the strange
inflection was immediately familiar even over the communicator. "Where
is Squad Leader Razen?"

"Having a lie down," the voice said flatly; Kama recognised an allegory
for 'dead' when he heard one, especially when it was what he'd expected
anyway. Reconnecting with Oversight had taken less time than he'd hoped,
and Jark had sent them straight back to find out what had happened to
the rest of the Expedition.

Looking up at the expression on Kama's face, Skizer finally understood
what was going on. "You are the 'Predator'!"

"Guess that makes you Arnie," the creature replied drily, plainly making
some obscure reference.

Maybe it was just that Kama was familiar with the creature's strange way
of speaking, since Skizer didn't seem to pick up on it. "I am not
'Arnie'!" he snapped, "I am Communications Technician Skizer, son of
Kargh, and child of mighty Strak'kel! What do you want?"

"I am Adrian Saunders, son of Aaron," the creature replied, "and right
now I want to make a deal."

Though they must have been listening to every word, Dastasji Oversight
had remained silent, but this was the moment that Overseer Jark finally
spoke. "A deal? You have repeatedly murdered V'Straki troops! If
anything, you have declared war."

"I am not the one butchering the natives," Adrian replied coldly. "Am I
speaking to the Shiplord?"

"I am Overseer Jark," came the reply. "I speak on behalf of Shiplord
Jrasic, and you will speak with *me*."

There was a disturbingly long pause, and Kama wondered what the
Predator... what *Adrian Saunders* was thinking. Overseer Jark was safe
aboard the Dastasji, and would therefore speak more freely than was
wise. Kama, on the other hand, was already within communications
distance of Razen's last known position, and was feeling much less
brazen.

"You really have no idea who you are dealing with, Overseer Jark," said
Adrian Saunders. "You want the Artificial Intelligence destroyed, I
understand that---we have a common enemy---but the natives are mine to
protect, and maybe we can work together if you can just stop killing
them."

Jark hissed. "We may have considered this if---"

Adrian cut him off. "No, Jark, you are in the wrong here, and your
presence is counter--productive. I am Shiplord of the *Zhadersil*,
perhaps you have heard of it?"

"That... is not possible," said Jark, clearly off--balance.

"Because I am not Xagh?" Adrian asked. "Xagh is long dead. The ship
picked me as his replacement."

"You are not even V'Straki!" Jark shot back; everyone knew that a ship
could imprint a replacement Shiplord with everything he needed to get
the job done, but it was hard--coded to scan for genetics.

"Technically," Adrian replied, "I am."

There was a long silence, and Kama guessed the Dastasji was deliberating
over this sudden revelation. If this was true, then Adrian Saunders
would actually outrank their own Shiplord, and the Dastasji would have
been trying to kill a superior officer. Kama suddenly felt happy to be
off the ship.

"That is a very bold claim," said a new voice, and Kama instantly
recognised it as Shiplord Jrasic himself.

"I am certain you can verify it aboard your ship," Adrian replied. "No
doubt you are interested in what else I can tell you as well."

"Agreed," growled Jrasic. "Expeditionaries"---Kama realised the Shiplord
was now speaking directly to them instead---"you will rendezvous with
Adrian Saunders and escort him back to the ground base."

"Send a lander," Adrian interjected. "I am not walking for days through
the jungle for no reason. You have my coordinates."

"We do," Jrasic replied coldly; nobody spoke to him that way without
regretting it. "Remain where you are."

"Too easy," Adrian declared. "And try not to do anything stupid,
Shiplord, I would not want to destroy this planet ahead of schedule."

That sounded remarkably like a threat, Kama thought, but the
communication terminated before Adrian Saunders could elaborate. Not
that he really needed to, everyone knew what had happened in space, and
that continued anomalies prevented them from leaving. In just a single
sentence, Adrian Saunders had tied all their lives to his own.

"What do we do now?" Skizer whispered.

"We follow our orders," Kama said bleakly, "and we hope to survive
them."
:::
