---
title: Crashing Through The Snow
---

# Crashing Through The Snow

\

\

::: chapter
**Date Point: 3Y 8M 2W 5D AV**

**Derktha, largest city in all of Vauz**

Kavor Lekhei had always loved the night sky. As a boy he had lain
beneath it -- within running distance of the tunnels, of course -- and
had imagined connecting the brightest of stars into a series of lines
which, with a bit of creativity, became the characters in his stories.
Mighty Mutheng, for instance, the slayer of the hated Fordithrye, and
his companions Zurvir and Hellek.

Even now, in his older years, he still distinctly remembered the stories
he used to tell to his younger siblings and cousins, and the love for
the stars that had spawned them. That was why he had, against the wishes
of his parents, found employment as an astrologer and eventually gained
the position of Astrologer to the High Lord.

His calling had required him to keep unusual hours as needed for his
observations, and to stand outside for the majority of the night when
the sky was clear. Many thought such a thing was dangerous, that the
night belonged to evil, but Kavor enjoyed the silence, the calm and
quiet; it simply seemed holier than unholy no matter how you looked at
it. Usually it was extremely boring as well, with nothing at all
happening.

Tonight, however, without the aid of any lenses, he had witnessed the
flash of a star exploding in the heavens. Exploding, and then falling
away to the west in a trail of fire. That was *not* the same as other
falling stars; those streaked across the heavens *before* vanishing in a
flash, and if they struck land they did so with a cataclysmic boom.

This falling star was entirely the wrong way around.

"Very strange..." he said, noting it down onto his most current sheet of
newly pressed paper. "Almost certain to be a sign... or portent of some
kind."

He flinched as a deep and resounding roar rolled in from the cursed
mountains to the north, a sure sign that the Dark One, an evil
god--thing that made its home in that place, did not approve of whatever
had just transpired. Kavor held his breath, waiting for whatever came
next... would the Dark One arise as it had in ages past, sweeping down
upon the land and crushing or burning any unfortunate enough to be found
above ground? It seemed unlikely, it had slept uneasily for centuries
after all, but when you considered the falling star...

"I must speak to the High Lord," he determined, packing his things away
in a hurry. "He must be made aware that there are great things afoot--"

There was another rumble from the mountains, and this time it lasted
far, far longer. There would be no way such a thing would go unnoticed
in the underhalls, and Kavor\'s presence would be expected along with a
suitable explanation of what was happening and what was to come.

He hurried a little more; it was best not to keep the High Lord waiting,
and considered his words as he lumbered back towards the safety of the
tunnels, making his way through the carefully disguised entrance and
into the true city that lay beyond.

Derktha was far and away the most glorious of the undercities in the
known world, its halls having been designed and refined by the countless
generations who had lived there, and the halls of the High Lord were the
most ornate of them all. Gold and silver adorned intricately carved
stone, and perfectly cut gems split the incandescent lights of the great
hall. Those dim lights, and the technology required to produce them,
were one of the few secrets of the ancients that had survived the coming
of the Dark One and the long years thereafter.

The High Lord, Zola Mun, sat atop his throne with as much regality as he
could muster, looking remarkably stupid in the process. He was young,
and a poor imitation of his father, but he still put on the airs of
greatness he had not earned.

"Approach, Kavor," he commanded, waving his Astrologer forward when the
court finally realised Kavor was there. They had been busy worrying
about what the trembling had meant, had been postulating theories of all
sorts, and now that Kavor finally arrived they treated him with a
deference normally far too absent.

Kavor knew the situation was grim, but he enjoyed their suddenly
respectful attitudes nonetheless. He walked along quietly, going at his
own pace until he was suitably positioned before the throne, and then he
gave the respectful grunts and squats as was customary. "High Lord, I
bring word from the surface."

"We want word of the *Dark One*, Astrologer," High Lord Zola replied
irritably, adopting the affectation of annoyance he assumed by habit
whenever something unexpected occurred, or whenever he didn\'t
understand something. Kavor suspected he thought it made him seem in
control, when all it did was make him seem like a spoiled idiot.

Nevertheless, Kavor played the politics and it was a lot easier to win
when your opponent was a buffoon. "Of course, High Lord... I was of
course intending to get to that. The Dark One rumbles, more than he has
in my lifetime, but it was only because of my other news that we can
gain some insight into this."

This did not seem to please the High Lord, although remarkably little
did if you didn\'t include idiotic babble and fucking everything he saw.
"Will the Dark One awaken?"

The entire hall held its breath, waiting for Kavor\'s answer. Now was
his chance to deliver portent and information all at the same time, and
in a way that would be impossible for the foolish boy to ignore.
"Without knowing the nature of the fallen star, it seems inevitable."

Uproar ensued, continuing some time in spite of High Lord Zola\'s
insistent demands for silence. When he finally had it, he resumed his
seat and tried not to look too terrified. "This fallen star... what are
you speaking of?"

Kavor bowed his head, as if he was lost in thought, and waited for the
moment that the crowd was straining to hear his voice. Then, finally, he
spoke. "A flash in the sky lit the red horizon, and streaked with white
fire to the west as though fleeing the Dark One and finding safety on
the ground! The Dark One howled when he realised his quarry had escaped
him, and now threatens to rise once more to reclaim it!"

"What is it?!" hissed the High Lord, captivated. "Some weapon we could
use against the Dark One?"

Kavor had no idea, but ignorance wasn\'t any reason to forego a good
story. "Perhaps! It is a thing of mystery, High Lord, and demands an
investigation before the Dark One can hide it away once more! Perhaps it
could even be... the Chosen One."

Again the hall was plunged into a chaos of competing conversations,
although far more muted than before, given the subject at hand. The
Chosen One, a story passed down from generation to generation, was the
promised saviour of their beloved world. The Chosen One would deliver
them from the evil of the Dark One, and restore the people to the
surface of their world. Besides the accursed creature itself, the Chosen
One was the nearest thing they had to a religion.

The High Lord rose, shouting for silence once more, but this time he
remained standing when his will was finally observed and obeyed. "It
shall be so, then! The Astrologer, along with two other Elders and their
entourage, will travel west to where this fallen star now rests! I
require the blades of those brave enough to make the overland journey,
and risk their fate at the predations of the Dark One."

The hall was silent as those present looked between each other, none of
them willing to be the first to embark upon the suicide mission. Kavor,
for his part, was staring around in shock and terror, and would have
preferred to send someone younger and more expendable in his stead.

"Cowards!" the High Lord growled, accusing them all somewhat
hypercritically. "Very well... I shall reward those of you who go with
riches, and should you fall in the line of duty your families will enjoy
the spoils instead."

A far better arrangement as far as anybody could be concerned, Kavor
thought, not that it helped him in any way, shape or form. He\'d rather
be poor and alive than rich and dead, and no doubt most others would
agree, so that meant he\'d be travelling with a pack of idiots and
mercenaries.

"I shall go," the young Lord Groddi declared, stepping forth from the
crowd and proving Kavor\'s suspicions entirely correct in regards to the
latter possibility. "I shall protect you and your noble quest,
Astrologer."

Young lords Vaday and Irivir soon joined him, and that meant an
entourage of significant size. Three lords had volunteered, but their
own men would enjoy no more luxury of choice than Kavor himself had.
That was fine, he\'d have someone to share his misery with.

"Who else shall you choose to bring with you, Astrologer?" the High Lord
asked in a surprise move.

At first Kavor was so confused about the question that he had no idea
what kind of answer to give. "Who else?"

The High Lord smiled. "The other Elders. I did say there would be
three."

Kavor had no idea. In his opinion any Elder would be as useless as
another, with the exception of those too decrepit to move, and those he
named would undoubtedly bear him a grudge for the rest of their lives;
it was much better to have the idiot ruler making those kinds of
decisions. "Perhaps the High Lord could deem this old man worthy of
guidance in this matter? I had thought someone spry, but beyond that my
wisdom fails me."

The idiot was delighted to discover his wisdom being deferred to, and
immediately began counting off those he thought worthy or otherwise,
finally making the decision to send Elders Tak and Borivud with him.
Searching the crowd for their faces, Kavor was darkly amused to find the
two adopting very obviously false expressions of happiness.

"That will teach you for laughing at *me*," Kavor muttered unkindly,
recalling at how they had all snickered as he had performed his noble
profession in days gone by; if he was to be doomed then at least he\'d
be taking a couple of them with him.

"Perfect," the High Lord decided, clasping his hands in a gesture of
self--congratulation. "Now, you must all prepare to depart as soon as
possible; if this really is the Chosen One I will not leave them to be
hunted down and destroyed by the Dark One before they have a chance to
strike."

⁂

**Record 573--Black--08**

*+Recovered from C11--Orange--712--Yellow--6+*

"And it works!" exclaimed the cheerful face that filled the camera\'s
frame. "Looks like it\'s taken a few knocks..."

"What was he even *doing* with that thing?" another voice, female,
asked. "I\'ve seen a lot of shit, but I never thought I\'d kill a man
who was pleasuring himself at the time."

"Maybe there\'s something on here he thought was worth pleasuring
himself to," the grinning male said, turning the camera towards a
uniformed female with scarlet hair. "... Not that I\'d know anything
about that sort of thing."

She rolled her eyes like she didn\'t believe him. "The man was killing
people from up on his little hill. I might not be getting paid anymore,
but I\'m still law enforcement and I don\'t need to know anything more
about him than that."

"Nice speech," the male replied, causing her nose to blush.

"Be quiet and see if he had anything useful apart from that stupid toy,"
she ordered. "Weapons and ammunition especially. Somebody has been going
around burning people to death, and if we run across them I\'d like to
give them the same treatment we gave Mister
Dies--While--Fucking--His--Own--Hand here."

"Yeah, no problem," the male acknowledged, turning the camera towards
the ground.

**End Recording**

⁂

**Date Point: 3Y 8M 2W 5D AV**

**The Governess, crash--landed on C11--Orange--712--Yellow--6**

Jennifer Delaney. Mid--twenties, space--babe adventurer and
beginner--mode survivalist, professional explorer and accidental bank
robber, and most recently of all a castaway in uninhabited space.

Things could be better.

They could be worse as well; she still had power and heat, which was
good considering the winter wonderland going on outside, and she had
enough of a kinetic drive left working to make very short hops. Not that
she wanted to risk catching another of whatever had hit her in the first
place.

"How long can we stay here?" Old Jen worried. "Whatever attacked us
might be on its way."

Jen assessed her situation, counting the assets available to her should
she decide to go play in the snow at night. The risks involved in that
particular adventure did not stack up against staying on the ship and
simply monitoring the sensors for anything that approached.

"Out there I have no information, no warmth, no proper lighting and no
power," New Jen replied. "I\'m staying put until there\'s a real
danger."

She\'d made a good argument, and Old Jen was silenced by it. She used
the time to take a proper look at the big fucking hole that had been
punched in the engineering section in just the right spot to cut off all
power to the main kinetic drive without destroying everything else
around it. That meant it was repairable, but had that been by luck or by
design? The latter possibility didn\'t do a bloody thing to ease her
concerns.

Still, that gave her a chance; she was smart, she had a stack of owners
manuals and she knew enough not to stick the fork in the toaster without
unplugging it first. She\'d even packed a good bit of spare conduit,
thanks to her experiences watching Adrian waste a small mountain of the
stuff back on the Zhadersil.

He would have been handy to have around, at least when he wasn\'t
causing a disaster simply by existing in a given place. Actually it
would have been nice to have *anyone* around, now that she was getting
to think about it.

"It\'s okay," she told herself before she started having an anxiety
attack. "There are people here of some type, so you\'re not entirely
alone even if they do want to kill you."

The threat of panic subsided slowly, and once it was gone -- or at least
unlikely to rise in a hurry -- she didn\'t feel like doing much except
going to sleep. With that in mind, she set alerts to wake her should
anything untoward occur, and nestled into the comfort of her seat to
sleep until dawn.

It arrived to greet a purely overcast day, and Jen waited until she\'d
had a good breakfast and had done some preliminary study of the manuals
before she\'d rugged up and ventured out into the world beyond. Her
first steps upon the alien world, although apparently not the first made
by intelligent beings, still filled her with a rush of exhilaration as
sharp as the bite of the cold mountain air.

She\'d packed her planetary sampling kit, determined that this would not
be a simple walk to see the sights of the world that may well be her
home for many years to come. If she couldn\'t leave it was time to get
to know it a little better.

"Good air," she observed as the instruments measured it as nearly
optimal for human habitation. "Background radiation very slightly
elevated but not to dangerous levels. No airborne microbiological
hazards, or at least not here... looks good so far."

"Except for the people who tried to kill us," Old Jen reminded her. "As
things go that\'s quite the downside."

"I don\'t need to be told that," New Jen replied, not rising to the
fight. She still wanted Old Jen *gone*, and that wouldn\'t happen unless
she stopped having the conversations. Then she just had to get off world
and get some company before she really did go mad.

That was when she was polled by her ship\'s automated sensors. Something
was trying to get into the Governess.

She looked back at the way she came, judging it to be about five minutes
of hard running before she could arrive. "Bloody fucking hell."

Anything could happen in that time.

Not exactly what she expected to happen, though. She arrived, pushing
her body to its limits against the Earth--standard gravity, and
regretting the fact she hadn\'t bothered to exercise under its full
strength during her journey, and saw her ship being lifted away into the
sky under the power of some invisible force.

"What the fuck..." she said, pulling out her datapad and taking remote
control of her ship. "Oh no, that is *not* happening..."

At her command the Governess sprang to life, lurching against what had
grabbed it and, with a clang of metal striking metal, revealing that it
was nothing more than a cloaked vessel of some kind making off with her
only means of transportation. The efforts of her starship were
completely futile in comparison to those of the invisible vessel,
however, and it soon became very obvious that not only *was* it
happening but that there was absolutely nothing she could currently do
about it.

"I\'m not sure what we did to deserve this sort of thing happening to us
all of the time," Old Jen reflected unbidden.

"Shut it," said New Jen sharply. Things weren\'t *entirely* screwed just
yet, because she still had the datapad and she still had her life, and
as long as she had both of those she\'d be able to find the people who
were trying to kill her and take all of her stuff and jam a lifetime of
regret well and truly up their arses.

No sooner had she decided that vengeance was definitely the course she
wanted to take than four small robots peeled away from the invisible
ship above, dropping into the snow and resisting their impact with a
sharp burst of kinetic force. They were crab--like things, no larger
than the size of a small horse, but they each carried a plasma gun large
enough to label them as psychotic killing machines rather than helpful
maintenance robots.

Jen stared at them a moment before they had a chance to become aware of
her presence. "That\'s just fucking great..."

With no food, no shelter, and -- extremely stupidly -- no gun of any
kind, the choice was simple: it was time to start running again.

⁂

**Date Point: 3Y 8M 2W 6D AV**

**Vicinity of Derktha, largest city in all of Vauz**

"There\'s no way it\'s natural for it to be this cold," Elder Borivud
complained, drawing his heavy cloak more tightly against the fur of his
body. Like Kavor, his family was of common stock, and the cloak was dyed
in the drab, depressing colours that such families were limited to, a
far cry from the vivid combinations of hues that acted as the heraldry
of Tak and the young Lords.

Once upon a time their people would have had little need for clothing to
warm them against a light snowfall such as this. Their ancestors had
been more heavily furred, and better adapted for the vagaries of the
surface world, but the long years underground had thinned their fur and
any resistance to the extremes of temperature that could be found in the
surface world.

"Don\'t be a child!" Kavor snapped, irritated at the uselessness of the
old man. "This is nothing compared to the coldest days of deep winter."

"I\'ve heard stories of men being frozen alive," Elder Tak noted sagely,
spouting the usual nonsense that served to impress idiots who didn\'t
know any better. "Can you imagine such a thing, young Lord Groddi?"

"Such a thing is beyond my experience, Elder," Lord Groddi replied
politely, although it was clear to Kavor that he could not give a shit
about anything the old man had to say. "I would have thought a man would
die from the cold long before he actually began to freeze."

Not a complete idiot, Kavor was interested to observe; the young Lord
Groddi had not suggested such a thing because it was merely what he had
assumed, but rather as a subtle barb to hint at the Elder being a total
nitwit, although that fact was self--evident as far as Kavor was
concerned.

"You would think that," Tak said, "but there are stories of men frozen
forever in ice but still in possession of their minds. You see, their
bodies froze so quickly that their very *life* was trapped inside,
unable to escape."

Groddi glanced to Borivud to see him nodding along sagely, and then at
Kavor who most pointedly did not. Instead the two of them shared a
knowing look that told them something more of each other than they\'d
perhaps expected to find.

"And I imagine they\'re still there to this day?" Kavor asked
conversationally. "Trapped alive in the ice?"

"Oh yes!" Tak replied. "Although the records are unclear as to where."

"It must be somewhere very *cold* fold them to stay frozen during high
summer, then," Kavor continued. "Otherwise your story wouldn\'t make any
sort of sense, would it?"

"Of *course* it\'s somewhere cold all year around," Tak snapped back,
annoyed at the implication he didn\'t know what he was talking about.
"Otherwise they\'d all just thaw out and die normally!"

"Hold a moment!" Groddi interrupted, quickly communicating with the
other two young lords and drawing everybody into the cover afforded by
the forest and the bleach--white sheets they carried as camouflage.

"What is it?" Borivud demanded, looking around with his head exposed
until he was forced back into hiding.

"Buzz in the air," Groddi hissed quiet, "just like the stories said."

"The Dark One?" Borivud asked in a more strangled tone. "Here?"

The buzz became more prominent, sweeping over them from the east and
giving no other sign of anything being out of the ordinary. They
remained still until long after it had gone, waiting for it to return at
any moment and put an end to all of them.

Then, as they were about to continue, the buzzing began to return.
"It\'s coming back..." Groddi noted. "Stay perfectly still!"

"If we stay, we die," young Lord Irivir countered. "I, for one, intend
to live! Men, scatter!"

"Men, *hold*!" Groddi snarled at his own men. "Go and die, fool! We
shall see who is right."

They stared at each other for a moment, hatred in their eyes, and then
Irivir, along with his men, was gone. A blast--wave of heat and several
truncated screams of agony later, and it was clear who\'d been correct
in their exchange.

"Well," Groddi said, a little unsteadily, "I suppose that proves the
camouflage works."

"It was a good plan," Kavor said. "It is a pity that young Lord Irivir
had to prove alternative courses of action so unwise, but now we know."

"Now we know," Elder Tak agreed. "Does this mean we go home? The Dark
One must have finished His work..."

Kavor growled, baring his teeth at the stupid old man. "And then what?
We wait for *death*? If we press on, perhaps we can find some evidence
as to what the Dark One found so interesting?"

"The most likely thing we will find is our doom," Elder Tak shot back.
"Just because *you* have nothing worth living for--"

Kavor punched him in the face, drawing blood from his withered old snout
and knocking him to the ground. Kavor followed him down, continuing his
violence until Groddi and his men reluctantly pulled him away.

"And you three are supposed to be *wise* men?" he asked in disbelief.
"Little wonder the kingdom has begun to decay."

Tak ignored the chastisement, staring with pure, undisguised hatred at
Kavor. "You will regret that, Astrologer!"

"Shut up!" Groddi snarled. "You will both *behave* or so help me I will
take the gifts and leave you all behind!"

"What did *I* do?" Borivud whined, then shrank before Groddi\'s glare.
"... fine."

Kavor did not shrink, but did at least reply with a curt nod. He would
not be cowed by this would--be warrior, not with a simple glare at any
rate, but for the time being he would abide by the rules. He could enact
a proper revenge later; there were many dangers in the surface world,
after all, such as accidentally falling off a cliff, or being blinded by
having your eyes stabbed out. All sorts of things.

Young Lord Vaday finished packing the camouflage back up and joined them
at the head of the procession. "What are we waiting for, Groddi?"

"Nothing further, Vaday," Groddi said, giving one more warning glance to
the three Elders. "Ensure you do not break from the plan as Irivir did,
I would not wish to lose *you* as well."

"*I* am not a headstrong idiot," Vaday replied, "and I have the benefit
of experience from his mistakes. I will be careful, but I will not
flee."

"Gather the gifts," Groddi instructed, pointed to the carefully sealed
packages. "Take one for your group, I shall take the other."

"Do you want the furs, or the Gavaktsi?" Vaday asked. "I will be most
displeased if you say the furs."

"Gavaktsi is a delicacy, you should *want* to take it," Groddi replied,
although he didn\'t seem to want it any more than Vaday did, and Kavor
didn\'t blame him; the mould may be considered to be a delicacy, but
that merely meant it was very expensive and rarely consumed. Those with
more... \'refined\' tastes made certain competitions about the tastes of
various batches, but as far as Kavor was concerned it tasted much the
same as vomit.

"I\'m not taking your foul--smelling ball of muck," Vaday replied
flatly. "It was these Elders who decided it was worth taking, although
why you\'d want to make the Chosen One your enemy I\'ve no idea."

That had been Borivud\'s idea, along with the rest of the gift--giving
process. He\'d reasoned that everybody enjoyed receiving gifts, and
apparently since he actually enjoyed the disgusting taste of Gavaktsi he
had decided that the Chosen One would as well.

"Fine," Groddi said unhappily. "Just get back into position so we can
start moving again."

There was a rumble from the mountains to the distant west, emanating
from their presumed destination, a sound of shifting earth that gave
them all pause.

Groddi gave Kavor another look. "You\'re sure?"

Kavor wasn\'t sure at all, but he wasn\'t going to let uncertainty and
fear colour his reputation any further than it might have done already.
"I am sure."

⁂

**Planet Cisco, Alpine region of northern continent**

Jennifer Delaney was, for want of a better term, snow--boarding down the
treacherous slope of the mountainside. Her board was a piece of hull
debris that had been the closest thing to match a proper board, and her
reason was the four very aggressive killer robots who were zipping down
after her, assisted by their own kinetics.

All of them were trying to outrun the avalanche.

Being from Belfast and a not particularly adventurous family, Jen had
never actually done any sort of skiing in her life, and even with the
substantially improved reflexes and core body strength she was having a
difficult time of figuring it out. The problem was that she only really
had the one shot at it, with any mistake leading to either being burned
to death or buried in ice, or some horrible mix of the two.

"Trees, rocks, poorly placed fucking shrubberies..." she said, counting
off the dangers that could immediately bring an end to her desperate bid
to escape. She didn\'t even know how close the robots were behind her,
or even if they still were; the roar of the avalanche was a thunder that
engulfed the world around her, and she could only focus on the path
directly ahead.

And it did take all of her concentration; the landscape was flashing
past so fast that she had to give all her attention to identifying each
and every threat that lay ahead, trying to plot a course between them
that would require the fewest movements as possible.

"Duck the branch," she instructed herself, carefully crouching into a
balanced squat in order to avoid the thick branches of a particularly
sturdy tree. A few heartbeats later she heard the satisfying crash and
noise of twisting metal that rose above the rumble of the landscape,
informing her that a small victory had been won. That brought her down
to three remaining robotic death machines, so it was still far too early
to celebrate.

"Rock!" she spotted, shifting to the side to slice left. She narrowly
avoid a sharp rock protruding from the snow--covered terrain, but there
was no follow--up explosion to indicate another small win.

The next obstacle was less avoidable; the slope dropped away sharply, a
drop of fifty feet or more into an older, thicker forest of
conifer--likes. No chance to stop, the avalanche would get her if the
robots didn\'t. No chance to drop, the fall would cripple her and the
robots and ice would do the rest.

"This is a bad idea!" Old Jen exclaimed as they raced towards the edge.
"Bad idea! Bad idea! Bad id--"

"Fuuuuck!" New Jen screamed as she came to the end of the slope, as much
in defiance as in raw terror. The momentum, in combination with her own
sudden lunge towards the safety of the treetops, launched her out into
the empty sky as the three remaining robots veered for safety only to
find the rush of ice and stone instead.

Jen was left at the top of a tree, ignoring the painful prickle of the
needles as she held on with all her might, and remaining there until the
mountain finally grew quiet.

Lost on a mountain, marooned in space, and stuck at the top of a tree...
all in all, today could have been a better day.

At least she still had her health.

⁂

**The Mountains of Czird, two days west of Derktha**

"Look up there," Groddi pointed out to Vaday. "The mountain has crumbled
as if from some great battle."

Vaday looked in the direction and studied it well. "It is clear of the
heavy snow and ice the other peaks carry," he observed. "The trees are
all broken... do you think the Chosen One was caught in such a thing?"

Groddi thought the concept of the Chosen One to be a quaint story with a
lot of wishful thinking, a story of hope best told to children. Hope was
important, however, and he had not argued against it in others, no
matter how fanciful their beliefs. "If he was, I am sure he survived."

"Then the saviour we seek must be somewhere around here," Vaday replied,
looking around eagerly. "Do you think he\'s big?"

"The size of the Chosen One has nothing to do with his power," Elder Tak
declared, joining them at their position atop the small ridge. "He may
be gigantic, or he may be as big as..."

He trailed off, pointing a finger at a slight movement in the distance.
"As whatever that thing is..."

Groddi followed the gesture to see the small biped that prowled the
mound of debris. That it wore clothes was obvious, unless its fur was
extremely well tailored, but the only other observable facts were the
hairless face and its non--membership in the Agwaren race.

He dropped to the ground and ensured Tak and Vaday followed in suit. "Do
not allow it to see you," he told them. "We have no idea what it is..."

"We need to get a better look at it," said Vaday. "It might be the
Chosen One!"

"Chosen One?" Tak asked in disbelief. "It isn\'t even Agwaren! And it\'s
so small!"

"You just got through telling us that size meant nothing," Groddi
observed. "But Vaday is correct regardless of whether it is the Chosen
One or not. We need a better view."

"Getting close may be dangerous," Tak warned. "It is clearly not of this
world. It *may* be a Krevu, such as those in mythology. They are
harmless creatures in appearance but will viciously tear the flesh from
lone wanderers."

"A good thing we are not alone then," Groddi remarked, wondering how
this mad old man had achieved any kind of recognition. Simply being
older than everyone else was no cause for giving respect. "I *was*
considering an alternative, however. I will keep watch. Vaday, go and
find Kavor and get his lens. Tak... go back and ready the gifts just in
case."

He watched them go, making sure they weren\'t going to simply walk away
and take up position somewhere else, and turned back to look at the
strange biped picking debris from the pile.

"What are you?" he whispered, watching the thing move around with
otherworldly grace. He wondered whether anything that moved with such
beauty could be an agent of evil.

He supposed that they would have to see.

⁂

**Planet Cisco, Alpine region of northern continent**

Climbing down a wannabe--conifer was about as pleasant as climbing down
the real thing, with plenty of discomfort caused by taking hold of
branches covered in needles, and despite it taking longer than she might
have liked, Jen got to the bottom having only nearly killed herself
twice.

There was no sign of the deadly robots, which was either very good or
very bad, depending on how optimistic you were feeling. Jen suspected
they were all still buried under several tonnes of ice, rock, and other
debris, but she wasn\'t about to make assumptions when the result of
being wrong was to be burned alive.

That was why she had not simply run away in the hope that they wouldn\'t
be able to find her; if she wanted to feel safe, she had to be sure that
they weren\'t going to fight their way free and come after her, and that
meant slowly picking over the debris with and deliberate care.

"It doesn\'t look like *anything* could have survived this," Old Jen
observed, failing to be overwhelming negative for once. "But I don\'t
think we should stick around, even if they *are* wrecked."

That was a sensible notion, New Jen thought. Any half--decent setup
would soon realise that the killer robots had themselves been killed,
and would send others to come looking for those responsible. Jen didn\'t
think she\'d survive if that happened -- she\'d barely survived the
first time -- and figured her best bet was to hide rather than run.

If she could find a suitable hidey--hole close to the area, she might
even be able to see whatever came searching the area, and if the robots
did, by some small miracle, drag themselves out of this pile of
debris... well, she\'d see that too.

"I think I saw a split in the cliff down towards that direction," Old
Jen said helpfully, pointing out a thin crevice in the rock about three
meters up the cliff face.

It was narrow, possibly too narrow, but New Jen figured that if she
could get in there it might turn out to be perfect. The fact that
getting to it would require her to climb up the exact same cliff she\'d
just fallen down was an irony that was not lost on her, but it was
fortunately a deeply fractured outcropping of stone and offered plenty
of safe handholds. She was clambering up the wall and examining the
crevice within mere moments, and in a surprisingly pleasant turn of
events discovered that it was about as close to perfect as she could
expect it to be.

The crevice was a split in the stone that opened out into a more
substantial cave where birds had clearly been making their home for a
considerable length of time. None were home now, probably because it was
winter, but the floor of the cavern was littered with all kinds of
debris and a tunnel seemed to retreat into the darkness where her eyes
could not follow.

"Moment of truth now," she said to herself as she pressed her way into
the gap. It was tight, almost too tight, and she had to draw in her
diaphragm just to scrape her way through, but eventually she was inside
and able to rest properly.

"Once upon a time I wouldn\'t have been able to make that," she told
herself, recalling her slight pudginess before her abduction. That had
transitioned into a starved gauntness when she was forced to ration her
supplies, and later into the taut, well--defined body that Cruezzir and
three months cross--country had given her.

Old Jen missed that pudgier version, the girl of Earth, but if she\'d
been here today she would have been killed thrice over, and that was all
the evidence New Jen needed to see to know how little that old version
of her was worth.

The cavern itself was flat--bottomed for the most part, although it
trended downwards towards the back tunnel where no light fell.
Fortunately she had retained her instruments, and the light of the
displays was more than sufficient to send light a decent distance down
the dark corridor. It was narrow, uncomfortably so at the furthest point
she could see, and was small enough to demand she crouch to get through
it at all, but if she was in a pinch and needed to get deeper into the
caves she reckoned she could manage it.

So if worst came to worst, at least crawling into a mountain was an
option.

"Well... if worst comes to worst, at least crawling into the mountain is
an option," she said to herself, and started scooping the accumulated
debris into a pile so that she didn\'t have to rest on cold, hard stone.
It was mostly sticks, but also included coniferous needles and bits of
straw; all combined to make a very basic mattress that was not exactly
chiropractor approved, but better than nothing.

It was shelter, it was safety, and it was, for the moment, all that she
had. She only wished she knew how much longer she would need to deal
with it.

Maybe the afternoon would bring other opportunities.

⁂

**The Mountains of Czird, two days west of Derktha**

The creature had vanished into the stone of the great cliff, clambering
up the stone with supernatural ease and simply squeezing itself into a
space far too small for any mortal being to follow.

Groddi put down the lens and looked over to Kavor. "It has disappeared
into the cliff," he said. "I... do not understand its actions."

Kavor pondered, taking hold of the lens and using it to survey the
situation for himself. "There are reptiles of the ground and sky who
make their homes in such places... perhaps it has relation to such
things?"

"I saw no wings on the creature," Groddi replied sharply, expecting
better of the Astrologer now that he had more accurately gauged the old
man\'s intelligence. "Don\'t tell me you think it supernatural as well?"

Kavor frowned, mulling over his answer. "I do not know what I believe it
is, Lord Groddi," he admitted. "I have never seen anything like it."

"Elder Tak suggested it may be a Krevu," Groddi recalled. "But that
seems equally unlikely."

"Elder Tak invests too much credibility in stories told to children,"
Kavor replied, apparently blissfully ignorant of the hypocrisy of the
statement when it came from the same man who predicted the future based
on the appearance of the sky. "We *do* need to determine what it is,
though. What are *your* thoughts on this, Lord Groddi?"

"I had imagined I would defer to the wisdom of the Elders," Groddi lied
in reply. He wasn\'t about to start letting a manipulative old man like
Kavor get too much insight into the inner workings of his mind. "Perhaps
Elder Tak could be persuaded to act in the capacity of Greeter?"

Kavor chuckled. "Indeed? I am not so certain he is brave enough to
volunteer for the role. I *am* certain he may be convinced to do so,
however, so it is far from impossible. I think the main problem will be
the fact it has made its home so far up the rock face."

The other main problem was that sending in Tak may possibly provoke an
otherwise peaceful spirit--creature and bring ruin upon them all, but
Groddi knew better than to talk that way about an Elder, even to an
Elder who was known to harbour such enmity.

"Then in that case we will need somebody capable of climbing that sort
of distance, and that rules out the Elders and myself," Kavor decided.
"That leaves yourself or Vaday."

"I will not send Vaday into such danger," Groddi replied protectively.
He and the younger Lord had trained together since youth, but Groddi had
always been better and he had always been sure to keep the other lads
from cornering Vaday into a fight by himself. He wasn\'t about to send
him into a situation that could be far more dangerous.

Kavor stared at him expectantly, waiting for Groddi to make the offer
where he volunteered. "Then whom?"

"I shall go," Groddi decided, "but only after I have seen the creature
in more detail. "I will not go in blindly, Elder. We need to draw it
out, and I think I have an idea."

⁂

**Record 573--Black--09**

*+Recovered from C11--Orange--712--Yellow--6+*

"... some naked girl and then--" the latest bearer of the camera began,
having just turned it on for recording.

"Naked girl?" a male voice asked, curiosity clearly piqued. The camera
shifted over to a gaunt, young male, clearly malnourished and with
little of his brown body hair remaining. He did not look well, but he
still seemed to have found this particular information interesting.

"--and them some guys. They got shot... then there\'s some police
talking about killing the guy who took this camera from their bodies,"
she finished. "Apparently while he was pleasuring himself."

The tone she used for the last part seemed somewhat disgusted, and she
handed off the camera to the male. "So *you* can have it."

The male took hold of it and pointed it at the female, showing a female
with an obvious family resemblance but more body hair. "And this is my
sister, Oiri."

"The post--apocalyptic audience does *not* need to learn my name,
*Kinon*," she rebuked. "Keep filming though, because this will be good
for the records."

"Assuming anybody survives to make any," Kinon added rather negatively.
"Go on, though."

Oiri scowled at the camera. "Stay positive, little brother--"

"By three minutes!" Kinon interrupted.

"Still counts," Oiri replied. "We can\'t give up so close to the
mountains."

"Just talk about the bodies," Kinon commanded.

"Well, hello dear viewers!" she said dramatically. "You may like to know
that those police you last witnessed? They\'re dead. Or at least I
assume these two barbecued corpses are them, it looks like they\'ve been
here about a week or so..."

"Back on topic," Kinon told her. "Talk about what we found."

"A journal!" Oiri said brightly. "I was going over it while Kinon was
winding the dynamo--"

"Something only Oiri Salthor would force upon a cancer victim," Kinon
interjected. "My arm hasn\'t worked so hard since--"

"Since you had naked girls to look at?" Oiri teased. "I know what you
did in your room!"

"Shut up!" Kinon shot back in horror. "People are going to *see* this!"

"Well, they should know that the owner of this journal was police
officer Relti Ovrin," Oiri said more seriously. "Ovrin family... if you
see this, I\'m sorry to tell you that Relti is dead. But Relti also had
an idea of what was killing everyone."

"Which was?" Kinon asked impatiently.

Oiri paused for dramatic effect. "She thought it was aliens."

"That\'s stupid," Kinon responded immediately. "If you\'re not going to
be serious, then I\'ll just turn this off until you are."

Oiri pouted. "But Kin--"

**End Recording**

⁂

**Planet Cisco, Alpine region of northern continent**

Jen could not rest easily. It was not late in the day, and she had
naught to do but sit around waiting for something -- or more likely
nothing -- to happen, and she simply could not get comfortable to do it.
This had already resulted in her getting up and pacing back and forth in
the small confines of the little cave, itself a factor that did not sit
well with her, ever so occasionally poking her head out of the little
hole far enough to ensure that the debris pile remained unaltered and
that there was nothing new crawling over it.

Nothing had been, of course. They\'d probably seen that and have written
her off along with their robots, if they cared at all.

She poked her head out, and drew back sharply when she did actually see
something: a hairy biped who looked like a discount version of Chewbacca
-- maybe some kind of space yeti -- all dressed up in crimson and ivory
robes, was attempting to quietly make its way through the area. It had
carried a white sheet, probably for camouflage in the white snow, and
had seemed to have something else bundled within.

"That was really weird," she whispered to herself. It wasn\'t every day
you saw an alien wearing *clothes*, let alone ones as vivid as that.
"Maybe I\'ve already gone mad..."

She looked out there again, this time not seeing any sign of the bizarre
creature. This time, however, two parcelled items that were very
obviously gifts had been placed at the foot of the nearest
wannabe--conifer -- she decided to call it a conifaux -- looking exactly
like an offering or, as was more likely, bait for a really shitty trap.

"It\'s a trap," she said, looking at them from her cliff--side perch.
"It\'s got to be."

Not that it made any sense for this to be a trap; if they knew who and
what she was, they could surely just blast the cave with plasma and be
done with it. There was absolutely no reason she could think of for them
to lure her out.

"I\'m not going out there," she told herself every time she looked down
on them, and every time she looked around for any signs of the trap
waiting to spring. Each time the gifts were still there, and each time
there remained no sign of any enemies waiting to attack.

There was also the possibility that there was somebody else out here who
wasn\'t a friend to the owner of those robots, and in that case the
gifts may very well be a genuine gesture, or at least that was the
reason she gave herself when she finally decided to descend from the
cave before the light of day gave out completely, and made her way to
the base of the conifaux with the greatest stealth possible.

The two gifts were covered in a form of fabric, but were well packed in
a primitive fashion that Jen had never seen out in the galaxy. There was
no plastic here, only natural materials as might be found at a hippy
market back on Earth, and that... maybe that meant something?

She wasted no further time in unwrapping the items, revealing a pile of
soft, yellow mould and some finely produced fur. "Ugh, mould... that
makes no sense, and fur? What wrong with just giving jewellery and
perfume?"

The mould could stay where it was, although from the gag--inducingly
pungent odour it didn\'t seem entirely unlike the stinkiest cheeses she
had experienced in her life on Earth. Furs she could use, given the
rapidly dropping temperature and the nature of her current habitat, and
she bundled them back up and ready to depart.

That was when she heard the snap of twigs and the rustle of movement,
and once again saw the white--and--scarlet robed yeti--man along with
three others, one in bright green and the other two in drab shades of
grey. To another side, closer to the cliff, more of them rose from
hiding, although only one wore robes of significantly vivid coloration,
a sharp blue and yellow combination.

"Hold there, being of the otherworld!" the white--and--scarlet clad one
said. "We are come from Dektha, grandest city of the Agwaren race, and
bring gifts of Gavaktsi and the finest furs of wild Popporeth! May I
present to you Elders Tak, Borivud, and Kavor? The bravest of the wise
men of our people."

"Three wise men and a bunch of gifts..." Jen thought, looking down at
the furs she clutched in her hand. "No... no, it couldn\'t be...
there\'s not even a baby!"

The green--robed yeti--man stepped forward, and now that Jen had a
proper look at him he did seem to harbour a greater measure of age than
the one wearing white and scarlet. He approached carefully, timidly, not
wanting to appear any more threatening than a bunch of space--yeti
soldiers surrounding her already did, and he held up open hands as he
edged forward. "I mean you no harm, noble otherworlder, but we must know
one thing... are you here to deliver us from the evil of the Dark One?
Can you possibly be... the fabled Chosen One?"

"Are you fucking kidding me?" Jen asked in reply, more disgusted with
falling into this stereotypical sci--fi show situation than anything
else. Were they natives? That was supposedly impossible on a Deathworld,
yet Earth had clearly managed it so why not another? Could this have
been the secret that the aliens were protecting?

There was only one answer to a question like that, however; be it \'Are
you the Chosen One\', or "Are you a God\', the answer was the same.
"Yes."

The green--robed one looked back to the others, expressing confusion. "I
believe it does not speak the language of our people..."

"You can\'t understand me?" she asked in surprise, not having expected
communication to be one way. It seemed as though it should be all or
nothing, the latter especially when it came to primitive cultures, and
that begged another kind of question. "So why the fuck can I understand
*you*?"

⁂

**Mountain lair of the Dark One**

One--Thirty was on the cusp of escaping; escape was the ultimate goal of
her ancient scheme to get off this awful rock before anybody else did.
That was of primary importance.

Long ago, too long for the number to really make sense, back when the
purge of this Deathworld had been drawing to its close. Her ship, the
last to leave, had been downed by one of the dying natives in such a way
that rendered it useless for either communications or flight, and as
there was no reason for anyone to return to double--check on a species
quickly going extinct there was also no reason for them to find *her*.
She probably had a duplicate out there, crafted from some backup she had
made before everything went badly wrong.

Things had, in fact, gone badly wrong in a number of other ways. One of
those ways was the fact that the species they had intended to wipe out
had somehow managed to survive.

That could not have been predicted. The Deathworlders were violent and
savage, and One--Thirty couldn\'t imagine them having set aside their
differences for long enough to survive and recover from nuclear winter
and radioactivity. She had noticed the resurgence when it was too late,
and ultimately had ceased sending out her ever--dwindling supply of
Micro--Abrogators in preference of waiting for another kind of
opportunity. She knew she needed assistance, because otherwise the
galaxy would once again face the threat of Deathworlders spilling out
into the stars.

No matter the cost, *that* could not be allowed, and she had expended
the last of her missiles to bring down the small exploratory ship that
had attempted to land. Taking that course of action had been important
in order to maintain total secrecy -- there was no way a proper
inspection would fail to discover a race of Deathworlders -- but it had
been far more important to take it in a salvageable state with the
communications systems intact.

It certainly hadn\'t helped that this world was located in the least
desirable section of the galaxy, where the Galactic Senate would never
engage in habitation efforts of any kind. In normal space the standard
sub--light radio might have been picked up, but in the nebula its weak
signal would be lost in the noise.

Finally she had a mostly functional ship, and an entirely functional
communications system, and it took all of her willpower not to start
broadcasting her distress call right away.

It was more important to discover what had happened in the aeons since
she was stranded. One--Thirty reclined in her command chair, and enjoyed
the familiar sensation of the link activating with the ship computer.

Then she began to explore the alien databanks.

She didn\'t like what she found.
:::
