# S - Deceit and the Skeet
***Salvage***

---

**Hierarchy Fleet besieging New Askitoria, the Outer Cluster**

Twenty--Four knew something was wrong with the Abrogator the moment its
behaviour ceased following standard routines. Moments ago it had
reported damage to three of its primary actuators, each controlling the
motion of a separate leg, and he had been expecting this to be followed
up by a sudden lack of further response, courtesy of the galaxy\'s least
killable nuisance.

But when that did not happen, and the life--sign of Adrian Saunders
instead moved away from the damaged battle--drone, Twenty--Four
immediately became suspicions. These suspicions multiplied when, instead
of continuing on an intercept course, the other units proceeded towards
the compromised drone.

"All units, disregard data from Abrogator Red--Seven," he instructed,
fearful at what might come next. The human was here -- in the same
damned uniform he\'d fought Thirteen in -- and that meant his Corti
companion was almost definitely with him. Every system had to be
isolated, had to be rebooted and purged of any possible intrusion, and
while that took time it also meant he wouldn\'t end up facing an army of
his own drones as the last thing he ever did.

The biggest danger to his fleet was not the human, in spite of
Saunders\' aptitude for causing a truly ridiculous amount of
destruction. He could be dealt with, from a comfortable distance, if
only the cyber threat could be eliminated first.

"Abrogator Yellow--Square, continue pursuit of human," he commanded.
"Other units, switch target to other life--signs and proceed with
haste."

All he needed to do was distract Saunders for long enough to strike at
his allies, and then focus all efforts on destroying the human once and
for all. The details of that would have to wait for the moment, however,
as he could wait no longer to initiate lockdown protocols on his
fleet\'s computer systems, starting with the reboot of all major
modules.

He would be flying blind until it was done, but that would give him
ample time to prepare a brief statement -- a warning, in fact -- to be
delivered to Central in case of defeat, an unwelcome possibility now
that he knew the credentials of his enemy.

The lights clicked over to emergency green as the systems began their
rolling shutdown, leaving Twenty--Four to consider his next move under a
lime--coloured glare. All he could do was hope that by the time the
systems restored there was something left to wage war with.

---

**New Askitoria, the Outer Cluster**

When the Corti slave--master had decided to enter what had been the
sub--levels of the palace in search for functional interfaces, Zripob
had taken up position on the outside of the ruins under the pretence of
providing some sort of guard, in spite of only being armed with an
anti--tank kinetic weapon that would likely do nothing more than attract
the attention of robots as monstrous as the ones coming for them.

Staying outside had been a ruse, providing an excuse to allow him
freedom of movement in the event that an opportunity for escape
presented itself. The Five--Fingers was still in lockdown, but Adrian\'s
own ship was still somewhere nearby, hiding away under cloak, and if he
could figure out where it was he could get aboard and potentially make
his escape in a wonderfully poetic fashion.

Not that Zripob was much for poetry, but even he could see the humour in
repeatedly stealing a starship from the same person, and maybe this time
the Hierarchy would actually manage to put Adrian Saunders out of
everybody\'s misery. As far as Zripob was concerned, there was far too
great of a risk that, should Adrian actually manage to win this battle,
he would simply be abandoned on a dead asteroid base to try and figure
his own way out.

To that end he was simply hurling rocks in various directions to see
where the invisible thing was, and was so preoccupied with this duty
that he did not at first see the two monolithic robots entering the main
cavern from separate tunnels. It was only when Askit contacted him for a
status report that he discovered the two terrible machines drifting
towards the ruins.

"Status is bad!" he croaked in shock. "Very bad! Two automatons
converging on my location!"

"I was attempting to bait them with the broken one," Askit replied,
sounding neither surprised nor sympathetic, only factual. He was
detached from his emotions, like all other Corti, but with him that
would mean he was avoiding some overpowering emotion such as
shitting--yourself--terror, and Zripob certainly couldn\'t blame him for
wanting to avoid *that*. "The enemy must have flagged the others to
ignore its call."

"That doesn\'t help me!" Zripob croaked angrily, taking up position
behind a particularly solid bit of masonry with every intention of
figuring out what in the void he was going to do next. Dying seemed
likely, briefly preceded by raw terror and hopeless resistance, but he
thought Six--Skulls Zripob should be able to come up with something a
little flashier than *that*. "Adrian, do you read me?"

"Little fucking busy," the human replied curtly, sounding under pressure
himself. "Got one of these fucking things that just. Won\'t. Fucking.
Die!!!... Jesus Fuck--"

The connection dropped out as a rumbling wave of thunder swept the
asteroid once again, and Zripob wondered if this time one of the
machines had finally gotten lucky. If it had, it really couldn\'t have
happened at a worse time for Zripob, because that meant that if there
was anyone left to rely upon it would be the crazy little Corti who\'d
gotten him into this mess in the first place.

"Askit, respond," he croaked, flinching as the heavy kinetic cannons
began pulverising the barricade he\'d staked his life on. "Askit,
respond!"

"I\'m *busy*!" the Corti snapped. "What do you want?!"

"The Five--Fingers!" Zripob hurried, "it has *weapons*. Unlock the ship
and I\'ll use them to destroy these things..."

The barricade shook as more masonry plumed from impact sites, now under
assault every few heartbeats as the two robots cycled their barrage
against his position. "My shitty gun won\'t do anything against these
things!"

Silence answered him at first, and he thought that his proposal must be
getting ignored by whatever had caught the damned Corti\'s attention
instead of Zripob\'s imminent demise. "Unlocked... can you reach it?"

"Don\'t have to," Zripob replied, using the data--pad he\'d concealed
from the Corti in case he had tried to re--appropriate it, and
connecting into the now--fully accessible systems of the Five--Fingers.
He summoned the ship, and set the targets for its twin coil--guns, and
waited for it to arrive.

It was heralded by the gargantuan explosions of the two robots imploding
under the power of huge metal slugs accelerated to incredible
velocities, swiftly followed by the violent detonation of a large
section of ceiling that shot debris out in all directions.

That exposed the cloaked vessel drifting in the empty space between him
and the ceiling high above him. It was a tempting target for a second
volley, but acting too soon would alert the Corti to his plans. Instead,
Zripob chose to quickly board the Five--Fingers and initiate every
process required to lock the Corti hacker out of the systems and make
good his escape. The whole process would take roughly (one minute), and
all he had to do was stay alive that long.

His taskmaster was not yet willing to remain silent, however, and
Askit\'s demanding voice disturbed his moment of victory. "Zripob,
report! Were you successful?"

Zripob didn\'t want to answer, but for the moment he had to ensure his
little bastard didn\'t realise his true motives. "Very successful."

"Good," Askit replied. "I\'ll be joining you shortly, so get the ship
ready for escape. Thanks to my efforts, it looks like the fleet has
started a system shutdown, so we\'ll be able to get past them if we
hurry."

"Good news at last," Zripob said, although that would really only be
true for Zripob himself. "What about Adrian Saunders?"

"That\'s why we\'re escaping," Askit replied, more grimly than before.
"I\'m afraid Adrian Saunders is dead."

Zripob nearly *felt* a tangible wave of relief hit him as those words
were uttered, the words that confirmed that there was at least some
justice to be had in the universe. With Adrian Saunders dead, so died
one of the truly dangerous people with a grudge against him, and soon,
when Askit breathed his last gasp of air, another would join him.

His happiness barely in check, he waited for a reasonable amount of time
to suggest some kind of horrified shock, and replied in short. "I see."

---

**Record 573--Black--05** *+Recovered from C11--Orange--712--Yellow--6+*

"Look what I\'ve got!" Tormas said, focusing the camera on Mrera. She
was laid out on a bed, naked except for the blanket that covered her
lower portion. A warm fire cast its orange glow across the length of her
body, showing every curve with greater emphasis. "This is going to be so
great! I knew this cabin was a good idea!"

"I\'m not making a sex tape with you, Tormas," she replied, frowning at
the camera. "You can forget it!"

"Come on, Mrera!" he cajoled. "It\'s not as though there\'s anybody
around to see it!"

"Then there\'s no need to make one," she replied, smiling. "Turn it off
and come over here. The bed is just as comfortable as it looks."

"Alright, I\'ve turned it off," Tormas assured her, clearly lying. He
wandered around into view of the camera, fully exposing himself to it.
"I *suppose* I\'ll just have to *remember* how great this is."

Mrera giggled, reaching out. "Come here, idiot."

They were interrupted by the growling of heavy machinery, both freezing
in place as they focused on listening to the sound.

"What was that...?" Mrera whispered meekly, and they both stared past
the camera. "Tormas..."

"I\'ll... go and check it out," Tormas assured her after a moment of
hesitation. "Just wait here... stay... like *that*."

She nodded obediently. "Be careful!" she hissed after him.

Tormas walked past the camera, picking a blunt instrument up as he did
so. The door creaked open, and then it slammed closed, and Mrera waited
with wide, fearful eyes.

Things stayed that way until the battery ran dry.

**End Recording**

---

**New Askitoria, the Outer Cluster**

"What\'s your status, Adrian?" Askit asked, running some kind of mix
between the failing internal sensors, those belonging to the
Five--Fingers, and those aboard the ancient robot. It let him know that
his human companion was still alive, and that there had been a
substantial explosion in the lower tunnels where he\'d been fighting the
last of the robots to actually be facing him.

"Fucking well--done," Adrian replied after a moment. "My visor is all
fucking melted to shit... I can\'t see a fucking thing, and I\'m fairly
sure the metallic remains of that robot are *on fire*."

"You\'re lucky you\'re not similarly melted," Askit told him, knowing
from the data that it would have been a near thing indeed. "What
exploded down there?"

"I think it was a gas pocket in the rock," Adrian answered uncertainly,
although that would explain how anything was burning in a vacuum. "Shit
was fucking exploding all over the joint with that one\'s new and
fucking improved tactics, and I couldn\'t get a clean shot with all the
fucking running away I was doing..."

"Well, you\'ll be glad to know that Zripob has dealt with the remaining
two," Askit said, monitoring Zripob\'s progress on reclaiming the
Five--Fingers for himself. The Chehnasho was intelligent, but his
knowledge of computer systems was woefully lacking and he didn\'t
understand that every action he\'d taken since re--boarding the vessel
had been performed under an imitation interface. That meant that when
the devious bastard attempted to destroy Adrian\'s cloaked ship, the
systems reported a weapons malfunction instead of firing.

"You\'re fucking joking," Adrian replied, sounding about as pleased as
Askit had expected. Zripob had not felt the need to be entirely
forthcoming about what had transpired to bring him back to New Askitoria
in the same ship Adrian had stolen upon leaving, but Askit had been able
to piece together enough of a story to know that the mercenary was not
to be trusted.

"He\'s currently escaping aboard the Five--Fingers," Askit advised,
"after having attempted to destroy your ship."

"The fuck?!" Adrian shouted. "I just put that fucking thing back
together! If he\'s--"

"He believes the Five--Fingers is experiencing a weapons malfunction,"
Askit continued, interrupting the outburst before it could get fully
under way. "Your ship is fine, and he\'s leaving."

"I should kill that green fuck!" Adrian growled, his rage only somewhat
reduced by the news his vessel remained in one piece.

That was much as Askit had expected, and what he had prepared for, but
there was still one more thing for Zripob to do before he could be
allowed to let that to happen. "You can do that if he survives his
\'special assignment\'."

"What \'special assignment\'?" Adrian asked warily. "What have you got
planned?"

"The Hierarchy fleet is currently restarting its systems," Askit
informed him, although he was mainly inferring this fact from the sudden
lack of response from the ship computers. If the systems were
functioning they\'d at least give some sort of access denial, but this
at least proved that they were dealing with someone who wasn\'t taking
any chances. "It\'s the perfect time for escape."

"Something tells me his \'special assignment\' isn\'t to escape,"
guessed Adrian.

"No," Askit replied, smiling thinly. "His assignment is rather less
enjoyable than that."

---

**The Five--Fingers, proximity of New Askitoria, the Outer Cluster**

Zripob croaked out a laugh as the Five--Fingers cleared the base
entrance, knowing that he was at long last forever free of his Corti
task--master and the most dangerous human in the galaxy. Ahead there was
the Hierarchy fleet, lying dormant as promised, but that was not where
Zripob wanted to go; he put in the coordinates for Dominion space and
activated the auto--pilot, then sat back into the comfort of the
pilot\'s seat to await the change of course.

That was a change that did not come; instead the heading locked on to
the nearest of the Hierarchy vessels and began to accelerate at an
entirely alarming rate.

"What have you done?!" Zripob demanded, knowing full well who would be
responsible for this and reckoning on him listening in. "Bastard!"

Askit\'s face appeared on the main screen in gargantuan size, hideous in
scale and looking thoroughly unimpressed. "You try to leave me to my
death and *I\'m* the bastard?"

Zripob glared at him, not in any mood to argue the point. "What are you
doing? Are you intending to crash me into that ship?"

The Corti smiled. "Yes."

Zripob felt chills, and knew that Askit had completely outsmarted him
and was currently ensuring his death. But if death was certain he would
be doing a lot more gloating and spending a lot less time at it. "You
clearly *want* something, so why not say it before *I die*?"

Askit looked pleased. "Quick on the uptake, good. I\'ve left you some
data--jacks in there. You\'ll be arriving on that ship, and I just need
you to plug some in."

"Then just how am I even supposed to breach the airlock?" Zripob asked,
finding the data--jacks but nothing like a cutting torch. He didn\'t
even want to think about what might happen to him once he was actually
on board, or whether the Corti would actually release him once his
\'mission\' was complete. If it came down to it, he\'d do whatever was
necessary to cease being beholden to the psychotic little creature.

The psychotic little creature frowned in confusion. "You won\'t be
breaching any *airlock*, Zripob... you won\'t be *docking*."

The coil--guns thumped as the little salvage--runner entered weapons
range of the mighty Hierarchy vessels, and gave Zripob all the
information he needed to figure out what Askit had meant. "You\'re
deranged!"

Askit snickered. "*You\'re* not wearing your safety--belt."

The giant face vanished to reveal the looming form of the targeted
vessel, along with the rapidly decreasing number indicating the distance
between it and Zripob. There was no doubt in his mind that he was going
to be ramming it, and both the small coil--guns were doing their level
best to soften up the hull for the impact.

Soft enough and Zripob might even survive the impact.

He put on his safety--belt, pocketed the handful of data--jacks Askit
had left here for him, and gripped onto the seat with all he had. It was
going to be a bumpy ride.

---

**Hierarchy Fleet besieging New Askitoria, the Outer Cluster**

It was all going very badly wrong.

Exactly one of the Abrogators was still active in the asteroid base, and
that was the one that was almost undoubtedly completely compromised.
Whenever he attempted to contact it by radio, it simply made the rather
obscene suggestion that he depart and attempt to mate with himself,
which was physically impossible as well as biologically pointless.

The fact that there were only two life signs left aboard the asteroid
base was at first a victory, and then a complete disaster when he
realised that one of his own ships had been attacked. Not only was
Deployment Vessel 3 featuring a large hole from a recent impact, but an
escape pod containing a third life sign was heading for the edge of the
debris field as fast as it could go.

As if the damage to the ship hadn\'t been bad enough, it was now
proceeding to open fire with all remaining missiles on a spread against
the rest of the fleet, while it had set itself on what was most
definitely a ramming trajectory with Twenty--Four\'s command cruiser.

That was not an ideal situation, and he was forced to train all weapons
on the subverted vessel in order to destroy it before it could do the
same to him.

Space was filled with plasma fire and the bursting hull of a starship
under sustained explosive fire, and after (several minutes) of
exchanging weapons fire Deployment Vessel 3 ceased to be, and its ruined
hull could be pushed harmlessly aside by the powerful kinetic field of
the command cruiser.

His temper fouled, he looked over at He--Who--Had--Been--Zero and
scowled, damning the useless imprint for the failures that had brought
Twenty--Four to this day. One of the life--signs had escaped, although
it was unlikely to get very far before he could get after it, but two
others still remained within the asteroid itself, plan unknown.

The traitorous Abrogator had joined them, proving once and for all that
it had forever given up its allegiance to the Hierarchy in favour of a
pair of troublemakers from the outer rim. There was no use in sending
his final two, because the same end would inevitably reach them as well.

It was time to try something neither Zero nor Thirteen had considered;
it was time to try the art of conversation.

"This is Commander Tk--kkptkt," he said over the radio link that would
normally let him provide the Abrogator with orders. "I wish to speak to
those aboard the asteroid base."

The first response came several moments later, and was the voice of a
Corti whose qualities suggested him to be the same one that had helped
foil Thirteen aboard his own ship. "My companion wishes me to ask you if
you\'d like to surrender."

Twenty--Four glared at the console, regardless of the fact that they
could not see him and would have no way of knowing that he did so. "I
will not be surrendering to *you*, Askit, nor even to Adrian Saunders. I
had hoped that we might come to some arrangement."

"I assume that as you\'ve recognised us, you\'ve also transmitted the
fact that we\'re alive back to your headquarters?" Askit asked, and
quite accurately so.

"You may assume that," Twenty--Four granted. He had created his report,
and would only need to add the confirmation of Askit\'s presence before
sending it back to Central for review. He had also backed up his
consciousness, but Twenty--Four had never had to surrender a body before
and he wasn\'t going to start doing so now.

"What\'s your arrangement?" Askit asked curiously. "It better not be a
demand for our surrender, because as near as I can tell we\'re winning."

That was *their* hubris showing, but they certainly did have a right to
feel that way, because who else could have put up such a fight?

"Regardless of what you \'can tell\'," Twenty--Four replied with
deliberate slowness, "I can assure you that it isn\'t victory so much as
a good showing before a defeat. You are on the wrong side, and so my
offer is thus: join mine."

"You want us to join the Hierarchy?" Askit asked, his surprise
well--evident. "The same people who keep trying to kill us?"

"Clearly that would stop should you take me up on this," said
Twenty--Four dryly. "And there are many other benefits: immortality, a
life of endless luxury and not to mention a place in an... organisation
that has outlasted *species*."

They were quiet, and Twenty--Four knew that they would be discussing it.
They would worry about it being a trap -- that was what it was, after
all -- but part of them would want the offer to be genuine. All that had
to happen was for their sense of hope and self--importance to win out
and--

The silence broke. "We want to meet in person."

Twenty--Four knew he had won. "Of course. Come aboard my command carrier
and I--"

The Corti interrupted him. "We have no reasonable means to reach you,"
he said, revealing their lack of further means of escape, "and we
aren\'t yet willing to trust you that far. We will meet you here.
Consider it a show of good faith."

Twenty--Four didn\'t enjoy having such terms dictated to him, especially
when accepting them meant he\'d be putting himself in danger. But unlike
them, *he* could back himself up, and if push came to shove he could
take them both with him. "Very well," he agreed, "I will need a short
time to prepare. Be aware that I will be bringing an armed escort, you
do have a human after all."

Another pause before their inevitable response. "We understand."

---

**Irbzrk Orbital Factory, Main Station**

The good doctor had shown an aptitude for putting together some aerosol
dispensers for the anaesthetic that would, when distributed into the
three ventilation systems that fed the bank, deliver enough knockout gas
to take out all unprotected non--humans in the building. The main trick
was going to be getting all of the police inside the building, but
Darragh had reasoned that they could more or less use Keffa and himself
to get that kind of attention.

Just so long as they didn\'t do anything too antagonistic, because he
didn\'t imagine the armed response would be anything short of
excruciatingly painful.

At least that had been the plan before Keffa had started shooting her
mouth off to the clerk, earning her a blast from a police stun--bolt
that left her twitching on the floor.

"Mnnggggg..." she moaned, thoroughly incapacitated.

The police seemed to have realised that they were committed to their
course of action, and now encircled Darragh menacingly. He tried to
think about what Adrian would do -- probably kill everybody in the room,
so that was no help -- and what Jen might do -- probably never get into
this situation in the first place -- so with neither of them being of
any inspiration he did what came natural and started to complain.

"Look what you\'ve done!" he said accusingly, gesturing towards Keffa.
"Would you look at what you\'ve done to my lovely wife?"

"Do not move!" the policeman who was farthest from him shouted. "We have
you under arrest!"

"Arrest?" he asked. "Arrest for *what*, exactly? I\'m not the one who\'s
gone and shot someone! What are you going to do about that?"

"She was acting in a threatening manner," the policeman replied.

Darragh threw up his hands in exasperation, a gesture that nearly got
him three simultaneous blasts to the chest. "Oh, a \'threatening
manner\', was it? Just because she was wanting to see a manager? Just
because from the looks of things we\'ve been robbed! Robbed, do you
hear? You don\'t think she might have gotten a wee bit fired up from
that sort of thing? Don\'t tell me you would have done that if she
hadn\'t been a human! That\'s racism, that is! I\'m going to make a
complaint to your supervisor!"

The policemen glanced at each other awkwardly, less determined now to
continue in their pursuit to make a scene, and looking a good bit
confused by things in general.

"Are you..." one of the other policemen began before taking his helmet
off to rub his head wearily. "Are you... I was saying something..."

They all began to teeter around in an entirely unbalanced way, before
inevitably crumpling to the floor where the gentle rise and fall of
their breath was the only sign of life. The clerks were out too, which
wasn\'t entirely part of the plan but had been accounted for, and
Darragh got to work.

"Keffa," he said, giving her a light kick in the side that she only
barely responded to. "Wake up! For crying out loud, stop lazing around,
will you?"

She hardly moved, but she *was* conscious and no longer twitching, so he
hoped for a speedy recovery and moved on to his next patient: the
closest clerk he could find. To her he forewent the kick in the side and
instead delivered a small dose of a sharp stimulant that had the poor
creature restored to some kind of delirious consciousness with a single
sniff.

"Wha-- wha\'s going on?" the clerk, a male Vzk\'tk, asked woozily.
"I\'m... I\'m sick..."

"I\'m Officer D," Darragh told him, counting on the creature to remain
in a confused state for some time. "There\'s been a gas attack on the
building, and you\'re the only survivor..."

"Only... only survivor!?" the Vzk\'tk asked, turning his head to look
around in alarm and nearly falling over one again, before turning back
to fix on Darragh. "You... you\'re a human!"

"Which means I can survive things that would kill anything else," he
said gently, "so that\'s why they sent me in. Makes sense, yes?"

The Vzk\'tk briefly struggled with this argument before deciding to
simply go with it and take the explanation as given. "Yes... but we\'ve
got to get out of here!"

"My instructions are to save any survivors, and get the money out..." he
dissembled, continuing to rely on the creature\'s dull wit coupled with
drug--induced stupidity to get him where he needed to go. These
arguments wouldn\'t have convinced any but the dumbest of the more
intelligent races, drug--induced idiocy or not, and he was sure that it
would only convince the clerk for as long as the anaesthetics remained
stronger than the stimulants. "Can you help me get the money out?"

"The money?" the Vzk\'tk asked, trying to focus through the haze. "Oh...
yes."

"Good job," Darragh reassured him, "now get to it."

---

**New Askitoria, the Outer Cluster**

It had taken precious little time for Twenty--Four to assemble what he
had required to get him to the asteroid base -- merely a small lander
craft, the latest revision of a combat harness, and the two remaining
Abrogators -- while the rest of the time had been spent doing one final
backup and transmitting it back to central along with an encrypted copy
of his report that could only be unlocked by himself.

Once he had been satisfied that his affairs were in order, Twenty--Four
had proceeded to make the journey across the gulf of dust and debris
that separated the base from his command cruiser, making his approach
slow and deliberate so as not to appear to be making some sort of
attack. If his plan was to work it was vital that they trust him right
up until the moment he betrayed them.

He landed at the docks and proceeded, with the use of the harness\'s own
kinetics, to continue towards the rendezvous point under the escort of
the two enormous Abrogators. He arrived there in short order, to find
the Corti, Askit, and the human, Adrian Saunders, sitting comfortably
atop the compromised Abrogator. It seemed that they had brought their
own insurance policy, but it would do them no good against Twenty--Four.

"Greetings," he said as he arrived, using the harness scanners to give
him a high detail report on each of them. To his delight it appeared
that the human\'s vacuum suit had been damaged, although not lethally
so, and the visor had heavily deformed and discoloured to the point that
it would be impossible to see through.

Confident that even Adrian Saunders was incapable of fighting in a suit
damaged to that extent, Twenty--Four grew more comfortable in his plan.
"Let us waste no time with pointless introductions," he continued. "I am
Twenty--Four, and I am--"

"Here to kill us?" Askit asked. "We guessed."

Twenty--Four froze, quickly scanning for any traps and finding none. The
only source of danger appeared to be the single Abrogator they both
rode, and it would vanish under the arsenals of his remaining two loyal
robots as soon as he was certain--

"You are mistaken," he replied, attempting to buy some time. "Hasn\'t
everything been as I\'ve said? You are useful enough to allow into our
number, and all that I require is some *trust*--"

"We\'re not stupid," Askit replied, for some reason doing all of the
talking. Could Saunders be even more injured than he appeared? "But what
we don\'t understand is why you thought we\'d fall for this? I don\'t
doubt you\'ve already backed up your brain, so you have nothing to lose
by coming here and everything to gain by taking us unaware."

So that was the explanation; Thirteen certainly hadn\'t revealed just
how *much* information he had leaked to the enemy, but it now appeared
to be enough to seriously mess with Twenty--Four\'s plans. He would have
to forego the plan to trick them into an easier situation -- they
weren\'t going to fall for it anyway -- and proceed directly to the part
where he killed them.

"Abrogators," he said, "Kill--"

He was interrupted by something hitting both of them at once, something
moving so fast that it not only punched through the main section of
each, but also drew the resulting explosive blast along for the ride.
The floor below each was shattered, turned into a spray of dust minor
debris that was swept along by the plume of hot plasma that came with a
breached containment unit, and if he hadn\'t been wearing his combat
harness, he\'d have been dead for certain.

Twenty--Four had been around a long time, and he knew a coil--gun bolt
when he saw it, but he hadn\'t seen anything around that could fire one.
That probably meant that they still had a ship, and that would also mean
it was cloaked.

That changed the situation a great deal, but in spite of how things
looked they had only won the battle, not the war. He whispered the
activation code for the backup plan, speaking to the voice interface of
his ships rather than those two fools in front of him, and by the time
the dust cleared so that he could see the human aiming its primitive
weapon at him, he had already set a course that would ensure their
defeat.

"Nice try, dickhead," Saunders told him, his face still concealed by the
visor\'s disfiguration. "What now?"

"What now, indeed?" Twenty--Four repeated, both angered and amused at
the sheer boldness of their plan. They hadn\'t killed him immediately,
probably hoping to take him prisoner and extract whatever information
they desired, but that had been their mistake.

"*Now*," he said, "we all get to die together. Although some of us more
permanently than others."

---

"What the fuck are you talking about?" Adrian asked, getting the feeling
that something very bad had just happened, or was happening, or was
about to happen. Or all three.

It was probably all three.

Trix answered for him, which was good because she was a much more
reliable source of information than some arsehole who was trying to kill
him. "Adrian, I\'ve detected movement from all five remaining vessels,"
she advised. "One is already on course for the docking bay."

He spared a glance towards the docking area, although it wasn\'t
possible to see it from where he currently sat -- atop a broken down
robot -- or through the messed up visor that obscured just about
everything except for his heat vision. "It\'s docking?"

"No," she replied. "It\'s far too big to dock."

That wasn\'t good news. He turned his attention back to the Hierarchy
agent, who seemed content to stand there and simply wait for death, or
at least bask in their panic and ignorance as they tried to figure out
what was going on. "You\'re ramming us with your fucking starships?"

The alien chortled in surprised amusement. "I see you\'ve got more
resources available to you than you were letting on! Yes, I have just
commanded my vessels to successively ram your docking bay... oh, and to
fire all loaded missiles, so that should be *very* enjoyable."

"You will not be able to survive that, Adrian," Trix warned him. "None
of us will be able to survive that!"

A growl rose in Adrian\'s throat. "You fucking dickbag!"

"You just sent a command," Askit repeated with the familiarly cautious,
but slightly excited tone of possibly having just found a wonderful
exploit. "Just now?"

Agent Dickbag laughed some more. "Of course! I was hoping against things
going so *poorly*, but as always I enacted a contingency plan."

"Adrian," Askit said, "kindly shoot this \'motherfucker\' directly in
the head."

"No problem," Adrian replied, adjusting his aim slightly. He figured
that if Askit had been that specific, he probably wanted the majority of
the suit intact, and that meant there was something on there they could
use to survive.

"Wait... what?" Agent Dickbag managed to get out, just in time for his
question to be punctuated by a twelve--gauge slug to the face. Heat
vision wasn\'t great, but it was enough to have given Adrian the kind of
general outline of Agent Dickbag and the really quite impressive suit he
was wearing, and now there was a big hole where the head used to be.

"Not so amused now, is he?" Adrian asked with a laugh of his own. "But I
sure fucking hope you know what you\'re doing."

"He sent a command to his ships," Askit explained, driving their robot
forward towards the stationary suit still housing most of Agent
Dickbag\'s body. "That means that his suit is using a link."

"You have (two minutes)," Trix informed Adrian. "Then things get a lot
deader in here."

"You need to be fast," Adrian said, even as Askit was plugging a
data--jack into a port. He\'d managed to locate a new data--pad, and
although it was probably not customised with everything he wanted, it
seemed as though it might suffice.

"No shit?" Askit hissed back, furiously tapping away at the pad. "Thank
you for the revelation, because I thought I had all day!"

Adrian frowned. "I should be quiet and let you work."

No sarcastic answer to *that*, but the little Corti was fully consumed
by his undertaking and Adrian didn\'t particularly want to distract him.
He stepped away and, in spite of not being able to see a damned thing
outside the infra--red spectrum, stared in the direction of the docking
area.

With his feet pressed against the ground, he could feel the sudden jolt
and subsequent rumble of something big hitting something even bigger.

"The first ship just impacted the docking bay," Trix informed him
unhelpfully. "I\'m detecting a missile swarm coming in fast. Twelve of
them will reach you in (thirty seconds)."

"How\'s that connection coming along?" Adrian called out to Askit.
"First ship just hit us, if you hadn\'t noticed."

"My shortcuts are all gone," he replied, clearly frustrated, "It\'s
taking much longer than I\'d hoped! It looks as though he was doing
everything by radio, so I have to listen through each log for the voice
commands and adjust them to something that doesn\'t get us both killed."

"Five seconds," Trix said, and Adrian could see the faint heat
signatures of a dozen cylinders making a long curve from the distant
main tunnel, their course altering to bring them straight towards
Adrian.

"We\'ve got missiles," he informed Askit, raising his shotgun and hoping
like hell he could hit anything with such limited visibility. "Hope I\'m
a good enough shot."

"Those missiles are operating by wireless," Askit observed. "And their
controller has just been destroyed..."

"Reckon you can stop them?" Adrian asked, still adjusting his aim.

Askit shook his head. "Not before they kill us."

The missiles bore down on them, their outlines growing as their heat
signatures grew closer. "Looks like this should be a bit fucking
interesting, then."

"Interesting is one word for it," Askit replied. "Another would be--"

"Pull, motherfucker!" Adrian interrupted, shooting down the first of the
missiles in an explosion that sent two more careening into the ground
with the expected detonative outcome.

"Nine to go," Askit counted, stepping around and crouching behind the
combat harness as though it could somehow shield him from that amount of
explosive power. "We\'re not going to make it."

Adrian switched to a new target. "Pull."


